apps/docs/content/docs/guide/installation.mdx, before:

---
title: Installation
description: Get started with NextUI in the official documentation, and learn more about all our features!
---

# Installation

Requirements:

- [React 18](https://reactjs.org/) or later
- [Tailwind CSS 3.4](https://tailwindcss.com/) or later
- [Framer Motion 4](https://www.framer.com/motion/) or later

---

<CarbonAd />

## Automatic Installation

Using the CLI is now the easiest way to start a NextUI project. You can initialize your project and add components directly via the CLI:

```codeBlock bash
npm install -g nextui-cli
```

<Spacer y={4}/>

```codeBlock bash
nextui init my-nextui-app
```

You will be prompted to configure your project:

```codeBlock bash
? Select a template › - Use arrow-keys. Return to submit.
❯   App
    A Next.js 13 with app directory template pre-configured with NextUI (v2) and Tailwind CSS.
    Pages
    A Next.js 13 with pages directory template pre-configured with NextUI (v2) and Tailwind CSS.
```

Once your NextUI project is initialized, you can add individual components using the CLI. For example, to add a button component:

```codeBlock bash
nextui add button
```

This command adds the Button component to your project and manages all related dependencies.

You can also add multiple components at once:

```codeBlock bash
nextui add button input
```

Or you can add the main library `@nextui-org/react` by running the following command:

```codeBlock bash
nextui add --all
```

If you leave out the component name, the CLI will prompt you to select the components you want to add.

```codeBlock bash
? Which components would you like to add? › - Space to select. Return to submit
Instructions:
    ↑/↓: Highlight option
    ←/→/[space]: Toggle selection
    [a,b,c]/delete: Filter choices
    enter/return: Complete answer

Filtered results for: Enter something to filter

◯  accordion
◯  autocomplete
◯  avatar
◯  badge
◯  breadcrumbs
◉  button
◯  card
◯  checkbox
◯  chip
◯  code
```

## Manual Installation

If you prefer not to use the CLI, follow these steps to manually set up NextUI in your project:

### Global Installation

The easiest way to get started with NextUI is to use the global installation. Which means
that all the components are imported from a single package.

Follow the steps below to install all NextUI components:

<Steps>

#### Install Packages

To install NextUI, run one of the following commands in your terminal:

<PackageManagers
  commands={{
    npm: "npm install @nextui-org/react framer-motion",
    yarn: "yarn add @nextui-org/react framer-motion",
    pnpm: "pnpm add @nextui-org/react framer-motion",
    bun: "bun add @nextui-org/react framer-motion"
  }}
/>

#### Tailwind CSS Setup

NextUI is built on top of Tailwind CSS, so you need to install Tailwind CSS first. You can follow the official
[installation guide](https://tailwindcss.com/docs/installation) to install Tailwind CSS. Then you need to add
the following code to your `tailwind.config.js` file:

```js {8,13-14}
// tailwind.config.js
const {nextui} = require("@nextui-org/react");

/** @type {import('tailwindcss').Config} */
module.exports = {
  content: [
    // ...
    "./node_modules/@nextui-org/theme/dist/**/*.{js,ts,jsx,tsx}",
  ],
  theme: {
    extend: {},
  },
  darkMode: "class",
  plugins: [nextui()],
};
```

#### Provider Setup

It is essential to add the `NextUIProvider` at the `root` of your application.

```jsx
import * as React from "react";

// 1. import `NextUIProvider` component
import {NextUIProvider} from "@nextui-org/react";

function App() {
  // 2. Wrap NextUIProvider at the root of your app
  return (
    <NextUIProvider>
      <YourApplication />
    </NextUIProvider>
  );
}
```

#### Setup pnpm (optional)

If you are using pnpm, you need to add the following code to your `.npmrc` file:

```bash
public-hoist-pattern[]=*@nextui-org/*
```

After modifying the `.npmrc` file, you need to run `pnpm install` again to ensure that the dependencies are installed correctly.

</Steps>

### Individual Installation

NextUI is also available as individual packages. You can install each package separately. This
is useful if you want to reduce the size of your CSS bundle as it will only include styles for the components
you're actually using.

> **Note**: JavaScript bundle size will not change due to tree shaking support in NextUI.

Follow the steps below to install each package separately:

<Steps>

#### Install Core Packages

Although you can install each package separately, you need to install the core packages first
to ensure that all components work correctly.

Run one of the following commands in your terminal to install the core packages:

<PackageManagers
  commands={{
    npm: "npm install @nextui-org/theme @nextui-org/system framer-motion",
    yarn: "yarn add @nextui-org/theme @nextui-org/system framer-motion",
    pnpm: "pnpm add @nextui-org/theme @nextui-org/system framer-motion",
    bun: "bun add @nextui-org/theme @nextui-org/system framer-motion"
  }}
/>

#### Install Component

Now, let's install the component you want to use. For example, if you want to use the
[Button](/docs/components/button) component, you need to run one of the following commands
in your terminal:

<PackageManagers
  commands={{
    npm: "npm install @nextui-org/button",
    yarn: "yarn add @nextui-org/button",
    pnpm: "pnpm add @nextui-org/button",
    bun: "bun add @nextui-org/button"
  }}
/>

#### Tailwind CSS Setup

TailwindCSS setup changes a bit when you use individual packages. You only need to add the
styles of the components you're using to your `tailwind.config.js` file. For example, for the
[Button](/docs/components/button) component, you need to add the following code to your
`tailwind.config.js` file:

```js {8,10,16}
// tailwind.config.js
const {nextui} = require("@nextui-org/theme");

/** @type {import('tailwindcss').Config} */
module.exports = {
  content: [
    // single component styles
    "./node_modules/@nextui-org/theme/dist/components/button.js",
    // or you can use a glob pattern (multiple component styles)
    './node_modules/@nextui-org/theme/dist/components/(button|snippet|code|input).js'
  ],
  theme: {
    extend: {},
  },
  darkMode: "class",
  plugins: [nextui()],
};
```

#### Provider Setup

It is essential to add the `NextUIProvider` at the `root` of your application.

```jsx
import * as React from "react";

// 1. import `NextUIProvider` component
import {NextUIProvider} from "@nextui-org/system";

function App() {
  // 2. Wrap NextUIProvider at the root of your app
  return (
    <NextUIProvider>
      <YourApplication />
    </NextUIProvider>
  );
}
```

#### Use the Component

Now, you can use the component you installed in your application:

```jsx
import * as React from "react";
import {Button} from "@nextui-org/button";

function App() {
  return (
    <Button>Press me</Button>
  );
}
```


#### Setup pnpm (optional)

If you are using pnpm, you need to add the following code to your `.npmrc` file:

```bash
public-hoist-pattern[]=*@nextui-org/*
```

After modifying the `.npmrc` file, you need to run `pnpm install` again to ensure that the dependencies are installed correctly.

</Steps>

<Blockquote color="warning">
  Version 2 is only compatible with React 18 or later. If you are using React 17 or earlier, please
  use <Link href="https://v1.nextui.org/docs/getting-started" isExternal> version 1 of NextUI</Link>.
</Blockquote>

## Framework Guides

NextUI UI is compatible with your preferred framework. We have compiled comprehensive, step-by-step tutorials for the following frameworks:

<Frameworks />

Commit message:

feat(docs): docs changes (#2868)
* feat(docs): add example how to set locale (#2867)

* docs(guide): add an explanation for the installation guide (#2769)

* docs(guide): add an explanation for the installation guide

* docs(guide): add an explanation for the cli guide

* docs(guide): add support for cli output

* fix: change sort priority - cmdk (#2873)

* docs: remove unsupported props in range calendar and date range picker (#2881)

* chore(calendar): remove showMonthAndYearPickers from range calendar story

* docs(date-range-picker): remove showMonthAndYearPickers info

* docs(range-calendar): remove unsupported props

* docs: refactor typing in form.ts (#2882)

* chore(docs): supplement errorMessage behaviour in input (#2892)

* refactor(docs): revise NextUI Provider structure

* chore(docs): add updated tag

---------

Co-authored-by: Nozomi-Hijikata <116155762+Nozomi-Hijikata@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: HaRuki <soccer_haruki15@me.com>
Co-authored-by: Kaben <carnoxen@gmail.com>

apps/docs/content/docs/guide/installation.mdx, after:

---
title: Installation
description: Get started with NextUI in the official documentation, and learn more about all our features!
---

# Installation

Requirements:

- [React 18](https://reactjs.org/) or later
- [Tailwind CSS 3.4](https://tailwindcss.com/) or later
- [Framer Motion 4](https://www.framer.com/motion/) or later

---

<CarbonAd />

## Automatic Installation

Using the CLI is now the easiest way to start a NextUI project. You can initialize your project and add components directly via the CLI:

```codeBlock bash
npm install -g nextui-cli
```

<Spacer y={4}/>

```codeBlock bash
nextui init my-nextui-app
```

You will be prompted to configure your project:

```codeBlock bash
? Select a template › - Use arrow-keys. Return to submit.
❯   App
    A Next.js 13 with app directory template pre-configured with NextUI (v2) and Tailwind CSS.
    Pages
    A Next.js 13 with pages directory template pre-configured with NextUI (v2) and Tailwind CSS.
```

Install the dependencies to start the local server:
```codeBlock bash
cd my-nextui-app && npm install
```

Start the local server:
```codeBlock bash
npm run dev
```

Once your NextUI project is ready to develop, you can add individual components using the CLI. For example, to add a button component:

```codeBlock bash
nextui add button
```

This command adds the Button component to your project and manages all related dependencies.

You can also add multiple components at once:

```codeBlock bash
nextui add button input
```

Or you can add the main library `@nextui-org/react` by running the following command:

```codeBlock bash
nextui add --all
```

If you leave out the component name, the CLI will prompt you to select the components you want to add.

```codeBlock bash
? Which components would you like to add? › - Space to select. Return to submit
Instructions:
    ↑/↓: Highlight option
    ←/→/[space]: Toggle selection
    [a,b,c]/delete: Filter choices
    enter/return: Complete answer

Filtered results for: Enter something to filter

◯  accordion
◯  autocomplete
◯  avatar
◯  badge
◯  breadcrumbs
◉  button
◯  card
◯  checkbox
◯  chip
◯  code
```

## Manual Installation

If you prefer not to use the CLI, follow these steps to manually set up NextUI in your project:

### Global Installation

The easiest way to get started with NextUI is to use the global installation. Which means
that all the components are imported from a single package.

Follow the steps below to install all NextUI components:

<Steps>

#### Install Packages

To install NextUI, run one of the following commands in your terminal:

<PackageManagers
  commands={{
    npm: "npm install @nextui-org/react framer-motion",
    yarn: "yarn add @nextui-org/react framer-motion",
    pnpm: "pnpm add @nextui-org/react framer-motion",
    bun: "bun add @nextui-org/react framer-motion"
  }}
/>

#### Tailwind CSS Setup

NextUI is built on top of Tailwind CSS, so you need to install Tailwind CSS first. You can follow the official
[installation guide](https://tailwindcss.com/docs/installation) to install Tailwind CSS. Then you need to add
the following code to your `tailwind.config.js` file:

```js {8,13-14}
// tailwind.config.js
const {nextui} = require("@nextui-org/react");

/** @type {import('tailwindcss').Config} */
module.exports = {
  content: [
    // ...
    "./node_modules/@nextui-org/theme/dist/**/*.{js,ts,jsx,tsx}",
  ],
  theme: {
    extend: {},
  },
  darkMode: "class",
  plugins: [nextui()],
};
```

#### Provider Setup

It is essential to add the `NextUIProvider` at the `root` of your application.

```jsx
import * as React from "react";

// 1. import `NextUIProvider` component
import {NextUIProvider} from "@nextui-org/react";

function App() {
  // 2. Wrap NextUIProvider at the root of your app
  return (
    <NextUIProvider>
      <YourApplication />
    </NextUIProvider>
  );
}
```

#### Setup pnpm (optional)

If you are using pnpm, you need to add the following code to your `.npmrc` file:

```bash
public-hoist-pattern[]=*@nextui-org/*
```

After modifying the `.npmrc` file, you need to run `pnpm install` again to ensure that the dependencies are installed correctly.

</Steps>

### Individual Installation

NextUI is also available as individual packages. You can install each package separately. This
is useful if you want to reduce the size of your CSS bundle as it will only include styles for the components
you're actually using.

> **Note**: JavaScript bundle size will not change due to tree shaking support in NextUI.

Follow the steps below to install each package separately:

<Steps>

#### Install Core Packages

Although you can install each package separately, you need to install the core packages first
to ensure that all components work correctly.

Run one of the following commands in your terminal to install the core packages:

<PackageManagers
  commands={{
    npm: "npm install @nextui-org/theme @nextui-org/system framer-motion",
    yarn: "yarn add @nextui-org/theme @nextui-org/system framer-motion",
    pnpm: "pnpm add @nextui-org/theme @nextui-org/system framer-motion",
    bun: "bun add @nextui-org/theme @nextui-org/system framer-motion"
  }}
/>

#### Install Component

Now, let's install the component you want to use. For example, if you want to use the
[Button](/docs/components/button) component, you need to run one of the following commands
in your terminal:

<PackageManagers
  commands={{
    npm: "npm install @nextui-org/button",
    yarn: "yarn add @nextui-org/button",
    pnpm: "pnpm add @nextui-org/button",
    bun: "bun add @nextui-org/button"
  }}
/>

#### Tailwind CSS Setup

TailwindCSS setup changes a bit when you use individual packages. You only need to add the
styles of the components you're using to your `tailwind.config.js` file. For example, for the
[Button](/docs/components/button) component, you need to add the following code to your
`tailwind.config.js` file:

```js {8,10,16}
// tailwind.config.js
const {nextui} = require("@nextui-org/theme");

/** @type {import('tailwindcss').Config} */
module.exports = {
  content: [
    // single component styles
    "./node_modules/@nextui-org/theme/dist/components/button.js",
    // or you can use a glob pattern (multiple component styles)
    './node_modules/@nextui-org/theme/dist/components/(button|snippet|code|input).js'
  ],
  theme: {
    extend: {},
  },
  darkMode: "class",
  plugins: [nextui()],
};
```

#### Provider Setup

It is essential to add the `NextUIProvider` at the `root` of your application.

```jsx
import * as React from "react";

// 1. import `NextUIProvider` component
import {NextUIProvider} from "@nextui-org/system";

function App() {
  // 2. Wrap NextUIProvider at the root of your app
  return (
    <NextUIProvider>
      <YourApplication />
    </NextUIProvider>
  );
}
```

#### Use the Component

Now, you can use the component you installed in your application:

```jsx
import * as React from "react";
import {Button} from "@nextui-org/button";

function App() {
  return (
    <Button>Press me</Button>
  );
}
```


#### Setup pnpm (optional)

If you are using pnpm, you need to add the following code to your `.npmrc` file:

```bash
public-hoist-pattern[]=*@nextui-org/*
```

After modifying the `.npmrc` file, you need to run `pnpm install` again to ensure that the dependencies are installed correctly.

</Steps>

<Blockquote color="warning">
  Version 2 is only compatible with React 18 or later. If you are using React 17 or earlier, please
  use <Link href="https://v1.nextui.org/docs/getting-started" isExternal> version 1 of NextUI</Link>.
</Blockquote>

## Framework Guides

NextUI UI is compatible with your preferred framework. We have compiled comprehensive, step-by-step tutorials for the following frameworks:

<Frameworks />
