apps/docs/content/docs/components/accordion.mdx, before:

---
title: "Accordion"
description: "Accordion display a list of high-level options that can expand/collapse to reveal more information."
---

import {accordionContent} from "@/content/components/accordion";

# Accordion

Accordion display a list of high-level options that can expand/collapse to reveal more information.

<ComponentLinks component="accordion" />

---

<CarbonAd />

## Installation

<PackageManagers
  showGlobalInstallWarning
  commands={{
    cli: "nextui add accordion",
    npm: "npm install @nextui-org/accordion",
    yarn: "yarn add @nextui-org/accordion",
    pnpm: "pnpm add @nextui-org/accordion",
    bun: "bun add @nextui-org/accordion"
  }}
/>

## Import

NextUI exports 2 accordion-related components:

- **Accordion**: The main component to display a list of accordion items.
- **AccordionItem**: The item component to display a single accordion item.

<ImportTabs
  commands={{
    main: 'import {Accordion, AccordionItem} from "@nextui-org/react";',
    individual: 'import {Accordion, AccordionItem} from "@nextui-org/accordion";',
  }}
/>

## Usage

<CodeDemo title="Usage" files={accordionContent.usage} />

### With Subtitle

<CodeDemo title="With subtitle" files={accordionContent.subtitle} />

### Expand multiple items

If you set `selectionMode` to `multiple`, then the `Accordion` will allow multiple items to be expanded at the same time.

<CodeDemo title="Expand multiple items" files={accordionContent.multiple} />

### Compact

If you set `isCompact` to `true`, the `Accordion` will be displayed in a compact style.

<CodeDemo title="Compact" files={accordionContent.compact} />

### Variants

Accordion has 4 variants: `light`, `shadow`, `bordered` and `splitted`.

#### Light variant

<CodeDemo title="Light variant" files={accordionContent.lightVariant} />

#### Shadow variant

<CodeDemo title="Shadow variant" files={accordionContent.shadowVariant} />

#### Bordered variant

<CodeDemo title="Bordered variant" files={accordionContent.borderedVariant} />

#### Splitted variant

<CodeDemo title="Splitted variant" files={accordionContent.splittedVariant} />

### Default expanded keys

If you want to expand some items by default, you can set the `defaultExpandedKeys` property to an array of keys.

<CodeDemo title="Default expanded keys" files={accordionContent.defaultExpandedKeys} />

### Disabled keys

If you want to disable some items, you can set the `disabledKeys` property to an array of keys.

<CodeDemo title="Disabled keys" files={accordionContent.disabledKeys} />

### Start content

If you want to display some content before the accordion items, you can set the `startContent` property.

<CodeDemo title="Start content" files={accordionContent.startContent} />

### Custom Indicator

Accordion items have a property called `indicator`. You can use it to customize the open/close indicator.

<CodeDemo title="Custom Open/Close Indicator" files={accordionContent.indicator} />

The indicator can be also a `function`, which receives the `isOpen`, `isDisabled` and the default `indicator` as parameters.

<CodeDemo
  title="Custom Open/Close Indicator Function"
  highlightedLines="15"
  files={accordionContent.indicatorFunction}
/>

### Custom Motion

Accordion offers a `motionProps` property to customize the `enter` / `exit` animation.

<CodeDemo title="Custom Motion" files={accordionContent.customMotion} />

> Learn more about Framer motion variants [here](https://www.framer.com/motion/animation/#variants).

### Controlled

Accordion is a controlled component, which means you need to control the `selectedKeys` property by yourself.

<CodeDemo title="Controlled" files={accordionContent.controlled} />

## Accordion Item Slots

- **base**: The accordion item wrapper.
- **heading**: The accordion item heading. It contains the `indicator` and the `title`.
- **trigger**: The button that open/close the accordion item.
- **titleWrapper**: The wrapper of the `title` and `subtitle`.
- **title**: The accordion item title.
- **subtitle**: The accordion item subtitle.
- **startContent**: The content before the accordion item.
- **indicator**: The element that indicates the open/close state of the accordion item.
- **content**: The accordion item content.

### Custom Accordion Styles

You can customize the accordion and accordion items styles by using any of the following properties:

- `className`: The class name of the accordion. Modify the accordion wrapper styles.(Accordion)
- `itemClasses`: The class names of the accordion items. Modify all accordion items styles at once. (Accordion)
- `classNames`: The class names of the accordion items. Modify each accordion item styles separately. (AccordionItem)

Here's an example of how to customize the accordion styles:

<CodeDemo title="Custom Accordion Styles" files={accordionContent.customStyles} />

<Spacer y={4} />{" "}

## Data Attributes

`AccordionItem` has the following attributes on the `base` element:

- **data-open**:
  Whether the accordion item is open.
- **data-disabled**:
  When the accordion item is disabled.
- **data-hover**:
  When the accordion item is being hovered. Based on [useHover](https://react-spectrum.adobe.com/react-aria/useHover.html).
- **data-focus**:
  When the accordion item is being focused. Based on [useFocusRing](https://react-spectrum.adobe.com/react-aria/useFocusRing.html).
- **data-focus-visible**:
  When the accordion item is being focused with the keyboard. Based on [useFocusRing](https://react-spectrum.adobe.com/react-aria/useFocusRing.html).
- **data-disabled**:
  When the accordion item is disabled. Based on `isDisabled` prop.
- **data-pressed**:
  When the accordion item is pressed. Based on [usePress](https://react-spectrum.adobe.com/react-aria/usePress.html).

<Spacer y={4} />{" "}

## Accessibility

- Keyboard event support for <Kbd>Space</Kbd>, <Kbd>Enter</Kbd>, <Kbd>Arrow Up</Kbd>, <Kbd>Arrow Down</Kbd> and <Kbd>Home</Kbd> / <Kbd>End</Kbd> keys.
- Keyboard focus management and cross browser normalization.
- `aria-expanded` attribute for the accordion item.
- `aria-disabled` attribute for the accordion item.
- `aria-controls` attribute for the accordion item.

<Spacer y={4} />{" "}

## API

### Accordion Props

| Attribute                 | Type                                            | Description                                                                                             | Default  |
| ------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------- |
| children                  | `ReactNode` \| `ReactNode[]`                    | The contents of the collection. Usually the array of `AccordionItem`                                    |          |
| variant                   | `light` \| `shadow` \| `bordered` \| `splitted` | The accordion appearance style.                                                                         | `light`  |
| selectionMode             | `none` \| `single` \| `multiple`                | The type of selection that is allowed in the collection.                                                |          |
| selectionBehavior         | `toggle` \| `replace`                           | The accordion selection behavior.                                                                       | `toggle` |
| isCompact                 | `boolean`                                       | Whether all Accordion items should be smaller.                                                          | `false`  |
| isDisabled                | `boolean`                                       | Whether the Accordion items are disabled.                                                               |          |
| showDivider               | `boolean`                                       | Whether to display a divider at the bottom of the each accordion item.                                  | `true`   |
| dividerProps              | [DividerProps](/docs/components/divider)        | The divider component props.                                                                            | -        |
| hideIndicator             | `boolean`                                       | Whether the Accordion items indicator is hidden.                                                        |          |
| disableAnimation          | `boolean`                                       | Whether the Accordion items open/close animation is disabled.                                           |          |
| disableIndicatorAnimation | `boolean`                                       | Whether the Accordion items indicator animation is disabled.                                            |          |
| disallowEmptySelection    | `boolean`                                       | Whether the collection allows empty selection.                                                          |          |
| keepContentMounted        | `boolean`                                       | Whether the Accordion items content should be always mounted.                                           | `false`  |
| fullWidth                 | `boolean`                                       | Whether the accordion should take up the full width of its parent container.                            | `true`   |
| motionProps               | `MotionProps`                                   | The motion properties of the Accordion.                                                                 |          |
| disabledKeys              | `React.Key[]`                                   | The item keys that are disabled. These items cannot be selected, focused, or otherwise interacted with. |          |
| itemClasses               | [Classnames](#accordion-item-classnames)        | The accordion items classNames.                                                                         |          |
| selectedKeys              | `all` \| `React.Key[]`                          | The currently selected keys in the collection (controlled).                                             |          |
| defaultSelectedKeys       | `all` \| `React.Key[]`                          | The initial selected keys in the collection (uncontrolled).                                             |          |
| disabledKeys              | `React.Key[]`                                   | The currently disabled keys in the collection (controlled).                                             |          |

### Accordion Events

| Attribute         | Type                                     | Description                                        |
| ----------------- | ---------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------- |
| onSelectionChange | `(keys: "all" ｜ Set<React.Key>) => any` | Handler that is called when the selection changes. |

### Accordion Item Props

| Attribute                 | Type                                              | Description                                                                                           | Default |
| ------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------- |
| children                  | `ReactNode` \| `string`                           | The content of the component.                                                                         |         |
| title                     | `ReactNode` \| `string`                           | The accordion item title.                                                                             |         |
| subtitle                  | `ReactNode` \| `string`                           | The accordion item subtitle.                                                                          |         |
| indicator                 | [IndicatorProps](#accordion-item-indicator-props) | The accordion item `expanded` indicator, usually an arrow icon.                                       |         |
| startContent              | `ReactNode`                                       | The accordion item start content, usually an icon or avatar.                                          |         |
| motionProps               | [MotionProps](#motion-props)                      | The props to modify the framer motion animation. Use the `variants` API to create your own animation. |         |
| isCompact                 | `boolean`                                         | Whether the AccordionItem is compact.                                                                 | `false` |
| isDisabled                | `boolean`                                         | The current disabled status.                                                                          | `false` |
| keepContentMounted        | `boolean`                                         | Whether the AccordionItem content is kept mounted when closed.                                        | `false` |
| hideIndicator             | `boolean`                                         | Whether the AccordionItem indicator is hidden.                                                        | `false` |
| disableAnimation          | `boolean`                                         | Whether the AccordionItem animation is disabled.                                                      | `false` |
| disableIndicatorAnimation | `boolean`                                         | Whether the AccordionItem indicator animation is disabled.                                            | `false` |
| classNames                | [Classnames](#accordion-item-classnames)          | Allows to set custom class names for the accordion item slots.                                        | -       |

### Accordion Item Events

| Attribute     | Type                           | Description                                                                                                     |
| ------------- | ------------------------------ | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| onFocus       | `(e: FocusEvent) => void`      | Handler that is called when the element receives focus.                                                         |
| onBlur        | `(e: FocusEvent) => void`      | Handler that is called when the element loses focus.                                                            |
| onFocusChange | `(isFocused: boolean) => void` | Handler that is called when the element's focus status changes.                                                 |
| onKeyDown     | `(e: KeyboardEvent) => void`   | Handler that is called when a key is pressed.                                                                   |
| onKeyUp       | `(e: KeyboardEvent) => void`   | Handler that is called when a key is released.                                                                  |
| onPress       | `(e: PressEvent) => void`      | Handler called when the press is released over the target.                                                      |
| onPressStart  | `(e: PressEvent) => void`      | Handler called when a press interaction starts.                                                                 |
| onPressEnd    | `(e: PressEvent) => void`      | Handler called when a press interaction ends, either over the target or when the pointer leaves the target.     |
| onPressChange | `(isPressed: boolean) => void` | Handler called when the press state changes.                                                                    |
| onPressUp     | `(e: PressEvent) => void`      | Handler called when a press is released over the target, regardless of whether it started on the target or not. |
| onClick       | `MouseEventHandler`            | The native button click event handler (**Deprecated**) use **onPress** instead.                                 |

---

### Types

#### Accordion Item Indicator Props

```ts
export type AccordionItemIndicatorProps = {
  /**
   * The current indicator, usually an arrow icon.
   */
  indicator?: ReactNode;
  /**
   * The current open status.
   */
  isOpen?: boolean;
  /**
   * The current disabled status.
   * @default false
   */
  isDisabled?: boolean;
};

type indicator?: ReactNode | ((props: AccordionItemIndicatorProps) => ReactNode) | null;
```

### Accordion Item classNames

```ts
export type AccordionItemClassnames = {
  base?: string;
  heading?: string;
  trigger?: string;
  titleWrapper?: string;
  title?: string;
  subtitle?: string;
  startContent?: string;
  indicator?: string;
  content?: string;
};
```

#### Motion Props

```ts
export type MotionProps = {
  /**
   * If `true`, the opacity of the content will be animated
   * @default true
   */
  animateOpacity?: boolean;
  /**
   * The height you want the content in its collapsed state.
   * @default 0
   */
  startingHeight?: number;
  /**
   * The height you want the content in its expanded state.
   * @default "auto"
   */
  endingHeight?: number | string;
  /**
   * The y-axis offset you want the content in its collapsed state.
   * @default 10
   */
  startingY?: number;
  /**
   * The y-axis offset you want the content in its expanded state.
   * @default 0
   */
  endingY?: number;
} & HTMLMotionProps;
```

Commit message:

fix: update accordion item heading tag to be customizable (#2265)
* fix: update accordion item heading tag to be customizable

* Update .changeset/heavy-hairs-join.md

Co-authored-by: Junior Garcia <jrgarciadev@gmail.com>

* Update .changeset/heavy-hairs-join.md

Co-authored-by: coderabbitai[bot] <136622811+coderabbitai[bot]@users.noreply.github.com>

* chore(accordion): lint

* chore(changeset): add issue number

* feat(docs): add HeadingComponent prop

---------

Co-authored-by: Shawn Dong <shawn.dong@flybuys.com.au>
Co-authored-by: Junior Garcia <jrgarciadev@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: coderabbitai[bot] <136622811+coderabbitai[bot]@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: աɨռɢӄաօռɢ <wingkwong.code@gmail.com>

apps/docs/content/docs/components/accordion.mdx, after:

---
title: "Accordion"
description: "Accordion display a list of high-level options that can expand/collapse to reveal more information."
---

import {accordionContent} from "@/content/components/accordion";

# Accordion

Accordion display a list of high-level options that can expand/collapse to reveal more information.

<ComponentLinks component="accordion" />

---

<CarbonAd />

## Installation

<PackageManagers
  showGlobalInstallWarning
  commands={{
    cli: "nextui add accordion",
    npm: "npm install @nextui-org/accordion",
    yarn: "yarn add @nextui-org/accordion",
    pnpm: "pnpm add @nextui-org/accordion",
    bun: "bun add @nextui-org/accordion"
  }}
/>

## Import

NextUI exports 2 accordion-related components:

- **Accordion**: The main component to display a list of accordion items.
- **AccordionItem**: The item component to display a single accordion item.

<ImportTabs
  commands={{
    main: 'import {Accordion, AccordionItem} from "@nextui-org/react";',
    individual: 'import {Accordion, AccordionItem} from "@nextui-org/accordion";',
  }}
/>

## Usage

<CodeDemo title="Usage" files={accordionContent.usage} />

### With Subtitle

<CodeDemo title="With subtitle" files={accordionContent.subtitle} />

### Expand multiple items

If you set `selectionMode` to `multiple`, then the `Accordion` will allow multiple items to be expanded at the same time.

<CodeDemo title="Expand multiple items" files={accordionContent.multiple} />

### Compact

If you set `isCompact` to `true`, the `Accordion` will be displayed in a compact style.

<CodeDemo title="Compact" files={accordionContent.compact} />

### Variants

Accordion has 4 variants: `light`, `shadow`, `bordered` and `splitted`.

#### Light variant

<CodeDemo title="Light variant" files={accordionContent.lightVariant} />

#### Shadow variant

<CodeDemo title="Shadow variant" files={accordionContent.shadowVariant} />

#### Bordered variant

<CodeDemo title="Bordered variant" files={accordionContent.borderedVariant} />

#### Splitted variant

<CodeDemo title="Splitted variant" files={accordionContent.splittedVariant} />

### Default expanded keys

If you want to expand some items by default, you can set the `defaultExpandedKeys` property to an array of keys.

<CodeDemo title="Default expanded keys" files={accordionContent.defaultExpandedKeys} />

### Disabled keys

If you want to disable some items, you can set the `disabledKeys` property to an array of keys.

<CodeDemo title="Disabled keys" files={accordionContent.disabledKeys} />

### Start content

If you want to display some content before the accordion items, you can set the `startContent` property.

<CodeDemo title="Start content" files={accordionContent.startContent} />

### Custom Indicator

Accordion items have a property called `indicator`. You can use it to customize the open/close indicator.

<CodeDemo title="Custom Open/Close Indicator" files={accordionContent.indicator} />

The indicator can be also a `function`, which receives the `isOpen`, `isDisabled` and the default `indicator` as parameters.

<CodeDemo
  title="Custom Open/Close Indicator Function"
  highlightedLines="15"
  files={accordionContent.indicatorFunction}
/>

### Custom Motion

Accordion offers a `motionProps` property to customize the `enter` / `exit` animation.

<CodeDemo title="Custom Motion" files={accordionContent.customMotion} />

> Learn more about Framer motion variants [here](https://www.framer.com/motion/animation/#variants).

### Controlled

Accordion is a controlled component, which means you need to control the `selectedKeys` property by yourself.

<CodeDemo title="Controlled" files={accordionContent.controlled} />

## Accordion Item Slots

- **base**: The accordion item wrapper.
- **heading**: The accordion item heading. It contains the `indicator` and the `title`.
- **trigger**: The button that open/close the accordion item.
- **titleWrapper**: The wrapper of the `title` and `subtitle`.
- **title**: The accordion item title.
- **subtitle**: The accordion item subtitle.
- **startContent**: The content before the accordion item.
- **indicator**: The element that indicates the open/close state of the accordion item.
- **content**: The accordion item content.

### Custom Accordion Styles

You can customize the accordion and accordion items styles by using any of the following properties:

- `className`: The class name of the accordion. Modify the accordion wrapper styles.(Accordion)
- `itemClasses`: The class names of the accordion items. Modify all accordion items styles at once. (Accordion)
- `classNames`: The class names of the accordion items. Modify each accordion item styles separately. (AccordionItem)

Here's an example of how to customize the accordion styles:

<CodeDemo title="Custom Accordion Styles" files={accordionContent.customStyles} />

<Spacer y={4} />{" "}

## Data Attributes

`AccordionItem` has the following attributes on the `base` element:

- **data-open**:
  Whether the accordion item is open.
- **data-disabled**:
  When the accordion item is disabled.
- **data-hover**:
  When the accordion item is being hovered. Based on [useHover](https://react-spectrum.adobe.com/react-aria/useHover.html).
- **data-focus**:
  When the accordion item is being focused. Based on [useFocusRing](https://react-spectrum.adobe.com/react-aria/useFocusRing.html).
- **data-focus-visible**:
  When the accordion item is being focused with the keyboard. Based on [useFocusRing](https://react-spectrum.adobe.com/react-aria/useFocusRing.html).
- **data-disabled**:
  When the accordion item is disabled. Based on `isDisabled` prop.
- **data-pressed**:
  When the accordion item is pressed. Based on [usePress](https://react-spectrum.adobe.com/react-aria/usePress.html).

<Spacer y={4} />{" "}

## Accessibility

- Keyboard event support for <Kbd>Space</Kbd>, <Kbd>Enter</Kbd>, <Kbd>Arrow Up</Kbd>, <Kbd>Arrow Down</Kbd> and <Kbd>Home</Kbd> / <Kbd>End</Kbd> keys.
- Keyboard focus management and cross browser normalization.
- `aria-expanded` attribute for the accordion item.
- `aria-disabled` attribute for the accordion item.
- `aria-controls` attribute for the accordion item.

<Spacer y={4} />{" "}

## API

### Accordion Props

| Attribute                 | Type                                            | Description                                                                                             | Default  |
| ------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------- |
| children                  | `ReactNode` \| `ReactNode[]`                    | The contents of the collection. Usually the array of `AccordionItem`                                    |          |
| variant                   | `light` \| `shadow` \| `bordered` \| `splitted` | The accordion appearance style.                                                                         | `light`  |
| selectionMode             | `none` \| `single` \| `multiple`                | The type of selection that is allowed in the collection.                                                |          |
| selectionBehavior         | `toggle` \| `replace`                           | The accordion selection behavior.                                                                       | `toggle` |
| isCompact                 | `boolean`                                       | Whether all Accordion items should be smaller.                                                          | `false`  |
| isDisabled                | `boolean`                                       | Whether the Accordion items are disabled.                                                               |          |
| showDivider               | `boolean`                                       | Whether to display a divider at the bottom of the each accordion item.                                  | `true`   |
| dividerProps              | [DividerProps](/docs/components/divider)        | The divider component props.                                                                            | -        |
| hideIndicator             | `boolean`                                       | Whether the Accordion items indicator is hidden.                                                        |          |
| disableAnimation          | `boolean`                                       | Whether the Accordion items open/close animation is disabled.                                           |          |
| disableIndicatorAnimation | `boolean`                                       | Whether the Accordion items indicator animation is disabled.                                            |          |
| disallowEmptySelection    | `boolean`                                       | Whether the collection allows empty selection.                                                          |          |
| keepContentMounted        | `boolean`                                       | Whether the Accordion items content should be always mounted.                                           | `false`  |
| fullWidth                 | `boolean`                                       | Whether the accordion should take up the full width of its parent container.                            | `true`   |
| motionProps               | `MotionProps`                                   | The motion properties of the Accordion.                                                                 |          |
| disabledKeys              | `React.Key[]`                                   | The item keys that are disabled. These items cannot be selected, focused, or otherwise interacted with. |          |
| itemClasses               | [Classnames](#accordion-item-classnames)        | The accordion items classNames.                                                                         |          |
| selectedKeys              | `all` \| `React.Key[]`                          | The currently selected keys in the collection (controlled).                                             |          |
| defaultSelectedKeys       | `all` \| `React.Key[]`                          | The initial selected keys in the collection (uncontrolled).                                             |          |
| disabledKeys              | `React.Key[]`                                   | The currently disabled keys in the collection (controlled).                                             |          |

### Accordion Events

| Attribute         | Type                                     | Description                                        |
| ----------------- | ---------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------- |
| onSelectionChange | `(keys: "all" ｜ Set<React.Key>) => any` | Handler that is called when the selection changes. |

### Accordion Item Props

| Attribute                 | Type                                              | Description                                                                                                                  | Default |
|---------------------------|---------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------|
| children                  | `ReactNode` \| `string`                           | The content of the component.                                                                                                |         |
| title                     | `ReactNode` \| `string`                           | The accordion item title.                                                                                                    |         |
| subtitle                  | `ReactNode` \| `string`                           | The accordion item subtitle.                                                                                                 |         |
| indicator                 | [IndicatorProps](#accordion-item-indicator-props) | The accordion item `expanded` indicator, usually an arrow icon.                                                              |         |
| startContent              | `ReactNode`                                       | The accordion item start content, usually an icon or avatar.                                                                 |         |
| motionProps               | [MotionProps](#motion-props)                      | The props to modify the framer motion animation. Use the `variants` API to create your own animation.                        |         |
| isCompact                 | `boolean`                                         | Whether the AccordionItem is compact.                                                                                        | `false` |
| isDisabled                | `boolean`                                         | The current disabled status.                                                                                                 | `false` |
| keepContentMounted        | `boolean`                                         | Whether the AccordionItem content is kept mounted when closed.                                                               | `false` |
| hideIndicator             | `boolean`                                         | Whether the AccordionItem indicator is hidden.                                                                               | `false` |
| disableAnimation          | `boolean`                                         | Whether the AccordionItem animation is disabled.                                                                             | `false` |
| disableIndicatorAnimation | `boolean`                                         | Whether the AccordionItem indicator animation is disabled.                                                                   | `false` |
| HeadingComponent          | `React.ElementType`                               | Customizable heading tag for Web accessibility. Use headings to describe content and use them consistently and semantically. | `h2`    |
| classNames                | [Classnames](#accordion-item-classnames)          | Allows to set custom class names for the accordion item slots.                                                               | -       |

### Accordion Item Events

| Attribute     | Type                           | Description                                                                                                     |
| ------------- | ------------------------------ | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| onFocus       | `(e: FocusEvent) => void`      | Handler that is called when the element receives focus.                                                         |
| onBlur        | `(e: FocusEvent) => void`      | Handler that is called when the element loses focus.                                                            |
| onFocusChange | `(isFocused: boolean) => void` | Handler that is called when the element's focus status changes.                                                 |
| onKeyDown     | `(e: KeyboardEvent) => void`   | Handler that is called when a key is pressed.                                                                   |
| onKeyUp       | `(e: KeyboardEvent) => void`   | Handler that is called when a key is released.                                                                  |
| onPress       | `(e: PressEvent) => void`      | Handler called when the press is released over the target.                                                      |
| onPressStart  | `(e: PressEvent) => void`      | Handler called when a press interaction starts.                                                                 |
| onPressEnd    | `(e: PressEvent) => void`      | Handler called when a press interaction ends, either over the target or when the pointer leaves the target.     |
| onPressChange | `(isPressed: boolean) => void` | Handler called when the press state changes.                                                                    |
| onPressUp     | `(e: PressEvent) => void`      | Handler called when a press is released over the target, regardless of whether it started on the target or not. |
| onClick       | `MouseEventHandler`            | The native button click event handler (**Deprecated**) use **onPress** instead.                                 |

---

### Types

#### Accordion Item Indicator Props

```ts
export type AccordionItemIndicatorProps = {
  /**
   * The current indicator, usually an arrow icon.
   */
  indicator?: ReactNode;
  /**
   * The current open status.
   */
  isOpen?: boolean;
  /**
   * The current disabled status.
   * @default false
   */
  isDisabled?: boolean;
};

type indicator?: ReactNode | ((props: AccordionItemIndicatorProps) => ReactNode) | null;
```

### Accordion Item classNames

```ts
export type AccordionItemClassnames = {
  base?: string;
  heading?: string;
  trigger?: string;
  titleWrapper?: string;
  title?: string;
  subtitle?: string;
  startContent?: string;
  indicator?: string;
  content?: string;
};
```

#### Motion Props

```ts
export type MotionProps = {
  /**
   * If `true`, the opacity of the content will be animated
   * @default true
   */
  animateOpacity?: boolean;
  /**
   * The height you want the content in its collapsed state.
   * @default 0
   */
  startingHeight?: number;
  /**
   * The height you want the content in its expanded state.
   * @default "auto"
   */
  endingHeight?: number | string;
  /**
   * The y-axis offset you want the content in its collapsed state.
   * @default 10
   */
  startingY?: number;
  /**
   * The y-axis offset you want the content in its expanded state.
   * @default 0
   */
  endingY?: number;
} & HTMLMotionProps;
```
