apps/docs/content/docs/components/avatar.mdx, before:

---
title: "Avatar"
description: "The Avatar component is used to represent a user, and displays the profile picture, initials or fallback icon."
---

import {avatarContent} from "@/content/components/avatar";


# Avatar

The Avatar component is used to represent a user, and displays the profile picture, initials or fallback icon.

<ComponentLinks component="avatar" />

---

<CarbonAd/>

## Import

NextUI exports 3 avatar-related components:

- **Avatar**: The main component to display an avatar.
- **AvatarGroup**: A wrapper component to display a group of avatars.
- **AvatarIcon**: The default icon used as fallback when the image fails to load.

<ImportTabs
  commands={{
    main: 'import {Avatar, AvatarGroup, AvatarIcon} from "@nextui-org/react";',
    individual: 'import {Avatar, AvatarGroup, AvatarIcon} from "@nextui-org/avatar";',
  }}
/>

## Usage

<CodeDemo title="Usage" files={avatarContent.usage} />

### Sizes

<CodeDemo title="Sizes" files={avatarContent.sizes} />

### Disabled

<CodeDemo title="Disabled" files={avatarContent.disabled} />

### Bordered

<CodeDemo title="Bordered" files={avatarContent.bordered} />

### Radius

<CodeDemo title="Radius" files={avatarContent.radius} />

### Colors

<CodeDemo title="Colors" files={avatarContent.colors} />

### Avatar Fallbacks

If there is an error loading the `src` of the avatar, there are 2 fallbacks:

- If there's a `name` prop, we use it to generate the initials and a random, accessible background color.
- If there's no `name` prop, we use a default avatar.

If the `showFallback` is not passed, the fallbacks will not be displayed.

<CodeDemo title="Avatar Fallbacks" files={avatarContent.fallbacks} />

### Custom Fallback

You can also provide a custom fallback component to be displayed when the `src` fails to load.

<CodeDemo title="Custom Fallback" files={avatarContent.customFallback} />

### Custom Implementation

In case you need to customize the avatar even further, you can use the `useAvatar` hook to create your own implementation.

<CodeDemo showPreview={false} title="Custom implementation" files={avatarContent.customImpl} />

### Custom initials logic

It is possible to customize the logic used to generate the initials by passing a function to the `getInitials` prop.
By default we merge the first characters of each word in the `name` prop.

## Avatar Group

<CodeDemo title="Avatar Group" files={avatarContent.group} />

### Group Disabled

<CodeDemo title="Group Disabled" files={avatarContent.groupDisabled} />

### Group Max Count

You can limit the number of avatars displayed by passing the `max` prop to the `AvatarGroup` component.

<CodeDemo title="Group Max Count" files={avatarContent.groupMax} />

### Group Total Count

You can display the total number of avatars by passing the `total` prop to the `AvatarGroup` component.

<CodeDemo title="Group Total Count" files={avatarContent.groupTotal} />

### Group Custom count

NextUI provides a `renderCount` prop to customize the count displayed when the `total` prop is passed.

<CodeDemo title="Group Custom count" files={avatarContent.groupCustomCount} />

### Group Grid

By passing the `isGrid` prop to the `AvatarGroup` component, the avatars will be displayed in a grid layout.

<CodeDemo title="Usage" files={avatarContent.groupGrid} />

### Group Custom Implementation

In case you need to customize the avatar group even further, you can use the `useAvatarGroup` hook and the
`AvatarGroupProvider` to create your own implementation.

<CodeDemo showPreview={false} title="Custom implementation" files={avatarContent.groupCustomImpl} />

## Slots

- **base**: Avatar wrapper, it includes styles for focus ring, position, and general appearance.
- **img**: Image element within the avatar, it includes styles for opacity transition and size.
- **fallback**: Fallback content when the image fails to load or is not provided, it includes styles for centering the content.
- **name**: Initials displayed when the image is not provided or fails to load, it includes styles for font, text alignment, and inheritance.
- **icon**: Icon element within the avatar, it includes styles for centering the content, text inheritance, and size.

### Custom Avatar Styles

You can customize any part of the avatar by using the `classNames` prop, each `slot` has its own `className`.

<CodeDemo title="Custom Avatar" files={avatarContent.custom} />

<Spacer y={4} />{" "}

## Data Attributes

`Avatar` has the following attributes on the `base` element:

- **data-hover**:
  When the avatar is being hovered. Based on [useHover](https://react-spectrum.adobe.com/react-aria/useHover.html)
- **data-focus**:
  When the avatar is being focused. Based on [useFocusRing](https://react-spectrum.adobe.com/react-aria/useFocusRing.html), it is applied when `isFocusable` is `true` or when the `as` property is assigned as `button`.
- **data-focus-visible**:
  When the avatar is being focused with the keyboard. Based on [useFocusRing](https://react-spectrum.adobe.com/react-aria/useFocusRing.html), it is applied when `isFocusable` is `true` or when the `as` property is assigned as `button`.

<Spacer y={4} />{" "}

## API

### Avatar Props

| Attribute    | Type                                                                        | Description                                                                  | Default   |
| ------------ | --------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------- |
| src          | `string`                                                                    | The source URL of the image to be displayed.                                 | -         |
| color        | `default` \| `primary` \| `secondary` \| `success` \| `warning` \| `danger` | Sets the avatar background color.                                            | `default` |
| radius       | `none` \| `sm` \| `md` \| `lg` \| `full`                                    | Sets the avatar border radius.                                               | `full`    |
| size         | `sm` \| `md` \| `lg`                                                        | Sets the avatar size.                                                        | `md`      |
| name         | `string`                                                                    | Displays the initials if the image is not provided or fails to load.         | -         |
| icon         | `ReactNode`                                                                 | Displays a custom icon inside the avatar.                                    | -         |
| fallback     | `ReactNode`                                                                 | A custom fallback component to display when the image fails to load.         | -         |
| isBordered   | `boolean`                                                                   | If `true`, adds a border around the avatar.                                  | `false`   |
| isDisabled   | `boolean`                                                                   | If `true`, disables the avatar and applies a disabled styling.               | `false`   |
| isFocusable  | `boolean`                                                                   | If `true`, makes the avatar focusable for keyboard navigation.               | `false`   |
| showFallback | `boolean`                                                                   | If `true`, shows the fallback icon or initials when the image fails to load. | `false`   |
| ImgComponent | `React.ElementType`                                                         | The component to be used as the image element.                               | `img`     |
| imgProps     | `ImgComponentProps`                                                         | Props to be passed to the image element.                                     | -         |
| classNames   | `Record<"base"｜ "img"｜ "fallback"｜ "name"｜ "icon", string>`             | Allows to set custom class names for the avatar slots.                       | -         |

### Avatar Group Props

| Attribute   | Type                           | Description                                         | Default |
| ----------- | ------------------------------ | --------------------------------------------------- | ------- |
| max         | `number`                       | The maximum number of visible avatars               | `5`     |
| total       | `number`                       | Control the number of avatar not visible            | -       |
| size        | `AvatarProps['size']`          | Size of the avatars                                 | -       |
| color       | `AvatarProps['color']`         | Color of the avatars                                | -       |
| radius      | `AvatarProps['radius']`        | Radius of the avatars                               | -       |
| isGrid      | `boolean`                      | Whether the avatars should be displayed in a grid   | `false` |
| isDisabled  | `boolean`                      | Whether the avatars are disabled                    | -       |
| isBordered  | `boolean`                      | Whether the avatars have a border                   | -       |
| renderCount | `(count: number) => ReactNode` | This allows you to render a custom count component. | -       |

Commit message:

feat(avatar): support slots in AvatarGroup (#2669)
* feat: rename newPost to new (#2665)

* fix(avatar): spread getAvatarGroupCountProps in avatar count

* feat(avatar): support slots in avatarGroup

* feat(avatar): support classNames and add getAvatarGroupCountProps

* feat(docs): add classNames to avatar group

* feat(avatar): add CustomSlots in avatar group

* feat(changeset): support slots in avatar group

---------

Co-authored-by: winches <96854855+winchesHe@users.noreply.github.com>

apps/docs/content/docs/components/avatar.mdx, after:

---
title: "Avatar"
description: "The Avatar component is used to represent a user, and displays the profile picture, initials or fallback icon."
---

import {avatarContent} from "@/content/components/avatar";


# Avatar

The Avatar component is used to represent a user, and displays the profile picture, initials or fallback icon.

<ComponentLinks component="avatar" />

---

<CarbonAd/>

## Import

NextUI exports 3 avatar-related components:

- **Avatar**: The main component to display an avatar.
- **AvatarGroup**: A wrapper component to display a group of avatars.
- **AvatarIcon**: The default icon used as fallback when the image fails to load.

<ImportTabs
  commands={{
    main: 'import {Avatar, AvatarGroup, AvatarIcon} from "@nextui-org/react";',
    individual: 'import {Avatar, AvatarGroup, AvatarIcon} from "@nextui-org/avatar";',
  }}
/>

## Usage

<CodeDemo title="Usage" files={avatarContent.usage} />

### Sizes

<CodeDemo title="Sizes" files={avatarContent.sizes} />

### Disabled

<CodeDemo title="Disabled" files={avatarContent.disabled} />

### Bordered

<CodeDemo title="Bordered" files={avatarContent.bordered} />

### Radius

<CodeDemo title="Radius" files={avatarContent.radius} />

### Colors

<CodeDemo title="Colors" files={avatarContent.colors} />

### Avatar Fallbacks

If there is an error loading the `src` of the avatar, there are 2 fallbacks:

- If there's a `name` prop, we use it to generate the initials and a random, accessible background color.
- If there's no `name` prop, we use a default avatar.

If the `showFallback` is not passed, the fallbacks will not be displayed.

<CodeDemo title="Avatar Fallbacks" files={avatarContent.fallbacks} />

### Custom Fallback

You can also provide a custom fallback component to be displayed when the `src` fails to load.

<CodeDemo title="Custom Fallback" files={avatarContent.customFallback} />

### Custom Implementation

In case you need to customize the avatar even further, you can use the `useAvatar` hook to create your own implementation.

<CodeDemo showPreview={false} title="Custom implementation" files={avatarContent.customImpl} />

### Custom initials logic

It is possible to customize the logic used to generate the initials by passing a function to the `getInitials` prop.
By default we merge the first characters of each word in the `name` prop.

## Avatar Group

<CodeDemo title="Avatar Group" files={avatarContent.group} />

### Group Disabled

<CodeDemo title="Group Disabled" files={avatarContent.groupDisabled} />

### Group Max Count

You can limit the number of avatars displayed by passing the `max` prop to the `AvatarGroup` component.

<CodeDemo title="Group Max Count" files={avatarContent.groupMax} />

### Group Total Count

You can display the total number of avatars by passing the `total` prop to the `AvatarGroup` component.

<CodeDemo title="Group Total Count" files={avatarContent.groupTotal} />

### Group Custom count

NextUI provides a `renderCount` prop to customize the count displayed when the `total` prop is passed.

<CodeDemo title="Group Custom count" files={avatarContent.groupCustomCount} />

### Group Grid

By passing the `isGrid` prop to the `AvatarGroup` component, the avatars will be displayed in a grid layout.

<CodeDemo title="Usage" files={avatarContent.groupGrid} />

### Group Custom Implementation

In case you need to customize the avatar group even further, you can use the `useAvatarGroup` hook and the
`AvatarGroupProvider` to create your own implementation.

<CodeDemo showPreview={false} title="Custom implementation" files={avatarContent.groupCustomImpl} />

## Slots

- **base**: Avatar wrapper, it includes styles for focus ring, position, and general appearance.
- **img**: Image element within the avatar, it includes styles for opacity transition and size.
- **fallback**: Fallback content when the image fails to load or is not provided, it includes styles for centering the content.
- **name**: Initials displayed when the image is not provided or fails to load, it includes styles for font, text alignment, and inheritance.
- **icon**: Icon element within the avatar, it includes styles for centering the content, text inheritance, and size.

### Custom Avatar Styles

You can customize any part of the avatar by using the `classNames` prop, each `slot` has its own `className`.

<CodeDemo title="Custom Avatar" files={avatarContent.custom} />

<Spacer y={4} />{" "}

## Data Attributes

`Avatar` has the following attributes on the `base` element:

- **data-hover**:
  When the avatar is being hovered. Based on [useHover](https://react-spectrum.adobe.com/react-aria/useHover.html)
- **data-focus**:
  When the avatar is being focused. Based on [useFocusRing](https://react-spectrum.adobe.com/react-aria/useFocusRing.html), it is applied when `isFocusable` is `true` or when the `as` property is assigned as `button`.
- **data-focus-visible**:
  When the avatar is being focused with the keyboard. Based on [useFocusRing](https://react-spectrum.adobe.com/react-aria/useFocusRing.html), it is applied when `isFocusable` is `true` or when the `as` property is assigned as `button`.

<Spacer y={4} />{" "}

## API

### Avatar Props

| Attribute    | Type                                                                        | Description                                                                  | Default   |
| ------------ | --------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------- |
| src          | `string`                                                                    | The source URL of the image to be displayed.                                 | -         |
| color        | `default` \| `primary` \| `secondary` \| `success` \| `warning` \| `danger` | Sets the avatar background color.                                            | `default` |
| radius       | `none` \| `sm` \| `md` \| `lg` \| `full`                                    | Sets the avatar border radius.                                               | `full`    |
| size         | `sm` \| `md` \| `lg`                                                        | Sets the avatar size.                                                        | `md`      |
| name         | `string`                                                                    | Displays the initials if the image is not provided or fails to load.         | -         |
| icon         | `ReactNode`                                                                 | Displays a custom icon inside the avatar.                                    | -         |
| fallback     | `ReactNode`                                                                 | A custom fallback component to display when the image fails to load.         | -         |
| isBordered   | `boolean`                                                                   | If `true`, adds a border around the avatar.                                  | `false`   |
| isDisabled   | `boolean`                                                                   | If `true`, disables the avatar and applies a disabled styling.               | `false`   |
| isFocusable  | `boolean`                                                                   | If `true`, makes the avatar focusable for keyboard navigation.               | `false`   |
| showFallback | `boolean`                                                                   | If `true`, shows the fallback icon or initials when the image fails to load. | `false`   |
| ImgComponent | `React.ElementType`                                                         | The component to be used as the image element.                               | `img`     |
| imgProps     | `ImgComponentProps`                                                         | Props to be passed to the image element.                                     | -         |
| classNames   | `Record<"base"｜ "img"｜ "fallback"｜ "name"｜ "icon", string>`             | Allows to set custom class names for the avatar slots.                       | -         |

### Avatar Group Props

| Attribute   | Type                               | Description                                         | Default |
| ----------- | ---------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------- | ------- |
| max         | `number`                           | The maximum number of visible avatars               | `5`     |
| total       | `number`                           | Control the number of avatar not visible            | -       |
| size        | `AvatarProps['size']`              | Size of the avatars                                 | -       |
| color       | `AvatarProps['color']`             | Color of the avatars                                | -       |
| radius      | `AvatarProps['radius']`            | Radius of the avatars                               | -       |
| isGrid      | `boolean`                          | Whether the avatars should be displayed in a grid   | `false` |
| isDisabled  | `boolean`                          | Whether the avatars are disabled                    | -       |
| isBordered  | `boolean`                          | Whether the avatars have a border                   | -       |
| renderCount | `(count: number) => ReactNode`     | This allows you to render a custom count component. | -       |
| classNames  | `Record<"base"｜ "count", string>` | Allows to set custom class names for the avatar group slots. | -  |
