apps/docs/content/docs/components/button.mdx, before:

---
title: "Button"
description: "Buttons allow users to perform actions and choose with a single tap."
url: https://nextui.org/docs/components/button
---

# Button

Buttons allow users to perform actions and choose with a single tap.

```jsx
import { Button } from "@nextui-org/react";
```

<CarbonAd />

<Spacer y={2} />

<Playground
  title="Default"
  desc="The default `Button` contains an animation effect."
  files={buttonContent.default_button}
/>

<Playground
  title="Disabled"
  desc="Unusable and un-clickable `Button`."
  files={buttonContent.disabled_button}
/>

<Playground
  title="Sizes"
  desc="Change the size of the entire `Button` including `padding`, `font-size` and `border` with the `size` property."
  files={buttonContent.sizes}
/>

<Playground
  title="Colors"
  desc="You can change the color of the `Button` with the property `color`."
  files={buttonContent.color}
/>

<Playground
  title="Shadow"
  desc="You can add a shadow effect with the property `shadow`."
  files={buttonContent.shadow}
/>

<Playground
  title="Loading"
  desc="You can add a `Loading` child element to the `Button` and disable the interactions using the 'disabled' property."
  files={buttonContent.loading}
/>

<Playground
  title="Bordered"
  desc="You can change the full style to a bordered `Button` with the `bordered` property."
  files={buttonContent.bordered}
/>

<Playground
  title="Rounded"
  desc="You can completely round the corners of any type of `Button` with the `rounded` property."
  files={buttonContent.rounded}
/>

<Playground
  title="Ghost"
  desc="You can change the full style to a ghost button with the `ghost` property."
  files={buttonContent.ghost}
/>

<Playground
  title="Flat"
  desc="You can change the full style to a flat button with the `flat` property.
                                        
_Note: `gradient` variant is not supported with the `flat` mode._"
  files={buttonContent.flat}
/>

<Playground
  title="Light"
  desc="You can change the full style to a light button with the `light` property. 
  
  _Note: `gradient` variant is not supported with the `light` mode._"
  files={buttonContent.light}
/>

<Playground
  title="Icons"
  desc="NextUI doesn't use any library or icon font by default, with this we give the freedom to use the one you prefer. In the following example we use [React Iconly](https://react-iconly.jrgarciadev.com)"
  files={buttonContent.icon}
/>

<Spacer y={3} />

### APIs

<Spacer y={2} />

#### Button Props

| Attribute        | Type                                            | Description                               | Default   |
| ---------------- | ----------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------- | --------- |
| **color**        | [NormalColors](#normal-colors)                  | Change button color                       | `default` |
| **size**         | [NormalSizes](#normal-sizes)                    | Change button size                        | `md`      |
| **disabled**     | `boolean`                                       | Disable button                            | `false`   |
| **bordered**     | `boolean`                                       | Bordered button                           | `false`   |
| **flat**         | `boolean`                                       | Flat button                               | `false`   |
| **rounded**      | `boolean`                                       | Rounded button                            | `false`   |
| **ghost**        | `boolean`                                       | The opposite color                        | `false`   |
| **shadow**       | `boolean`                                       | Display shadow effect                     | `false`   |
| **ripple**       | `boolean`                                       | Display drip animation                    | `true`    |
| **auto**         | `boolean`                                       | Autoscale button width                    | `false`   |
| **animated**     | `boolean`                                       | Display drip and scale animation          | `true`    |
| **borderWeight** | [NormalWeights](#normal-weights)                | Border weight for `bordered` button       | `normal`  |
| **autoFocus**    | `boolean`                                       | Automatically focus button                | `false`   |
| **onClick**      | `MouseEventHandler`                             | Button click handler                      | -         |
| **icon**         | `ReactNode`                                     | Show icon in button                       | -         |
| **iconRight**    | `ReactNode`                                     | Show icon on the other side of the button | -         |
| **type**         | `button` `reset` `submit`                       | Native type of button element             | `button`  |
| **ref**          | <Code>Ref<HTMLButtonElement &#124; null></Code> | forwardRef                                | -         |
| **css**          | `Stitches.CSS`                                  | Override Default CSS style                | -         |
| **iconLeftCss**  | `Stitches.CSS`                                  | Override icon CSS style                   | -         |
| **iconRightCss** | `Stitches.CSS`                                  | Override iconRight CSS style              | -         |
| **as**           | `keyof JSX.IntrinsicElements`                   | Changes which tag component outputs       | `button`  |
| ...              | `'id', 'className', ...`                        | Button native props                       | -         |

<Spacer y={2} />

#### Button Accessibility Props

| Attribute               | Type                                              | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   | Default |
| ----------------------- | ------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------- |
| **id**                  | `string`                                          | The element's unique identifier. See [MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Global_attributes/id)                                                                                                                                                                            | -       |
| **excludeFromTabOrder** | `boolean`                                         | Whether to exclude the element from the sequential tab order. If true, the element will not be focusable via the keyboard by tabbing. This should be avoided except in rare scenarios where an alternative means of accessing the element or its functionality via the keyboard is available. | -       |
| **aria-expanded**       | `boolean`                                         | Indicates whether the element, or another grouping element it controls, is currently expanded or collapsed.                                                                                                                                                                                   | -       |
| **aria-haspopup**       | `boolean` `menu` `listbox` `tree` `grid` `dialog` | Indicates the availability and type of interactive popup element, such as menu or dialog, that can be triggered by an element.                                                                                                                                                                | -       |
| **aria-controls**       | `string`                                          | Identifies the element (or elements) whose contents or presence are controlled by the current element.                                                                                                                                                                                        | -       |
| **aria-pressed**        | `boolean`                                         | Indicates the current "pressed" state of toggle buttons.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      | -       |
| **aria-label**          | `string`                                          | Defines a string value that labels the current element                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        | -       |
| **aria-labelledby**     | `string`                                          | Identifies the element (or elements) that labels the current element                                                                                                                                                                                                                          | -       |
| **aria-describedby**    | `string`                                          | Identifies the element (or elements) that describes the object.                                                                                                                                                                                                                               | -       |
| **aria-details**        | `string`                                          | Identifies the element (or elements) that provide a detailed, extended description for the object.                                                                                                                                                                                            | -       |

<Spacer y={2} />

### Button types

<Spacer y={1} />

#### Normal Colors

```ts
type NormalColors =
  | "default"
  | "primary"
  | "secondary"
  | "success"
  | "warning"
  | "error"
  | "gradient";
```

#### Normal Sizes

```ts
type NormalSizes = "xs" | "sm" | "md" | "lg" | "xl";
```

#### Normal Weights

```ts
type NormalWeights = "light" | "normal" | "bold" | "extrabold" | "black";
```

Commit message:

🔥 v1.0.0-beta.12 (#997)
* fix(react-popover): popover trigger on mobile device

* feat(react-button): export press and pointer types

* feat(docs-button): button events documentation

* chore(docs): button onClick to onPress

* fix: Tooltip trigger click event

* fix: process overflow visible #958 (#961)

* fix: process overflow visible.

* chore: updated process overflow hidden

* disabled prop of Loading Buttons in StoryBook restricts color type visibility. (#913)

* fix: added focus indicator to buttons that have a shadow (#934)

* fix: navbar link does not respect parent size

* fix: added focus indicator to buttons that have a shadow

Co-authored-by: Yuri Withowsky <yuri.withowsky@levelup.com.br>
Co-authored-by: Junior Garcia <jrgarciadev@gmail.com>

* fix: fixed a11y role issue in progress bar component (#930)

* fix: navbar link does not respect parent size

* fix: fixed a11y role issue in progress bar component

Co-authored-by: Yuri Withowsky <yuri.withowsky@levelup.com.br>
Co-authored-by: Junior Garcia <jrgarciadev@gmail.com>

* fix: fixed issues of clear button inside inputs #920 (#923)

* fix: fixed issues of clear button inside inputs #920

* chore: removed duplicate import

Co-authored-by: Junior Garcia <jrgarciadev@gmail.com>

* Added eslint import/no-duplicates (#929)

* chore: added eslint import/no-duplicates

* chore: unified duplicate import

* fix: removed duplicate CSS import

Co-authored-by: Junior Garcia <jrgarciadev@gmail.com>

* 🔥 v1.0.0-beta.12

Co-authored-by: Tianen Pang <32772271+tianenpang@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: joaoGabriel55 <j.quaresmasantos_98@hotmail.com>
Co-authored-by: 王方华 <45115006+wangly19@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Alpha Xek <116849110+alphaxek@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Jakob Guddas <github@jguddas.de>
Co-authored-by: Yuri Withowsky <yuri.withowsky@levelup.com.br>

apps/docs/content/docs/components/button.mdx, after:

---
title: "Button"
description: "Buttons allow users to perform actions and choose with a single tap."
url: https://nextui.org/docs/components/button
---

# Button

Buttons allow users to perform actions and choose with a single tap.

```jsx
import { Button } from "@nextui-org/react";
```

<CarbonAd />

<Spacer y={2} />

<Playground
  title="Default"
  desc="The default `Button` contains an animation effect."
  files={buttonContent.default_button}
/>

<Playground
  title="Disabled"
  desc="Unusable and un-clickable `Button`."
  files={buttonContent.disabled_button}
/>

<Playground
  title="Sizes"
  desc="Change the size of the entire `Button` including `padding`, `font-size` and `border` with the `size` property."
  files={buttonContent.sizes}
/>

<Playground
  title="Colors"
  desc="You can change the color of the `Button` with the property `color`."
  files={buttonContent.color}
/>

<Playground
  title="Shadow"
  desc="You can add a shadow effect with the property `shadow`."
  files={buttonContent.shadow}
/>

<Playground
  title="Loading"
  desc="You can add a `Loading` child element to the `Button` and disable the interactions using the 'disabled' property."
  files={buttonContent.loading}
/>

<Playground
  title="Bordered"
  desc="You can change the full style to a bordered `Button` with the `bordered` property."
  files={buttonContent.bordered}
/>

<Playground
  title="Rounded"
  desc="You can completely round the corners of any type of `Button` with the `rounded` property."
  files={buttonContent.rounded}
/>

<Playground
  title="Ghost"
  desc="You can change the full style to a ghost button with the `ghost` property."
  files={buttonContent.ghost}
/>

<Playground
  title="Flat"
  desc="You can change the full style to a flat button with the `flat` property.
                                        
_Note: `gradient` variant is not supported with the `flat` mode._"
  files={buttonContent.flat}
/>

<Playground
  title="Light"
  desc="You can change the full style to a light button with the `light` property. 
  
  _Note: `gradient` variant is not supported with the `light` mode._"
  files={buttonContent.light}
/>

<Playground
  title="Icons"
  desc="NextUI doesn't use any library or icon font by default, with this we give the freedom to use the one you prefer. In the following example we use [React Iconly](https://react-iconly.jrgarciadev.com)"
  files={buttonContent.icon}
/>

<Spacer y={3} />

### APIs

<Spacer y={2} />

#### Button Props

| Attribute        | Type                                            | Description                               | Default   |
| ---------------- | ----------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------- | --------- |
| **color**        | [NormalColors](#normal-colors)                  | Change button color                       | `default` |
| **size**         | [NormalSizes](#normal-sizes)                    | Change button size                        | `md`      |
| **disabled**     | `boolean`                                       | Disable button                            | `false`   |
| **bordered**     | `boolean`                                       | Bordered button                           | `false`   |
| **flat**         | `boolean`                                       | Flat button                               | `false`   |
| **rounded**      | `boolean`                                       | Rounded button                            | `false`   |
| **ghost**        | `boolean`                                       | The opposite color                        | `false`   |
| **shadow**       | `boolean`                                       | Display shadow effect                     | `false`   |
| **ripple**       | `boolean`                                       | Display drip animation                    | `true`    |
| **auto**         | `boolean`                                       | Autoscale button width                    | `false`   |
| **animated**     | `boolean`                                       | Display drip and scale animation          | `true`    |
| **borderWeight** | [NormalWeights](#normal-weights)                | Border weight for `bordered` button       | `normal`  |
| **autoFocus**    | `boolean`                                       | Automatically focus button                | `false`   |
| **onClick**      | `MouseEventHandler`                             | Button click handler                      | -         |
| **icon**         | `ReactNode`                                     | Show icon in button                       | -         |
| **iconRight**    | `ReactNode`                                     | Show icon on the other side of the button | -         |
| **type**         | `button` `reset` `submit`                       | Native type of button element             | `button`  |
| **ref**          | <Code>Ref<HTMLButtonElement &#124; null></Code> | forwardRef                                | -         |
| **css**          | `Stitches.CSS`                                  | Override Default CSS style                | -         |
| **iconLeftCss**  | `Stitches.CSS`                                  | Override icon CSS style                   | -         |
| **iconRightCss** | `Stitches.CSS`                                  | Override iconRight CSS style              | -         |
| **as**           | `keyof JSX.IntrinsicElements`                   | Changes which tag component outputs       | `button`  |
| ...              | `'id', 'className', ...`                        | Button native props                       | -         |

<Spacer y={1} />

#### Button Events

| Attribute                | Type                                                                                              | Description                                                                                                             | Default |
| ------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------- |
| **onClick** `deprecated` | <Code>(e: [PressEvent](https://react-spectrum.adobe.com/react-aria/usePress.html)) => void</Code> | Button click handler                                                                                                    | -       |
| **onPress**              | <Code>(e: [PressEvent](https://react-spectrum.adobe.com/react-aria/usePress.html)) => void</Code> | Handler that is called when the press is released over the button.                                                      | -       |
| **onPressUp**            | <Code>(e: [PressEvent](https://react-spectrum.adobe.com/react-aria/usePress.html)) => void</Code> | Handler that is called when a press is released over the button, regardless of whether it started on the button or not. | -       |
| **onPressStart**         | <Code>(e: [PressEvent](https://react-spectrum.adobe.com/react-aria/usePress.html)) => void</Code> | Handler that is called when a press interaction starts.                                                                 | -       |
| **onPressEnd**           | <Code>(e: [PressEvent](https://react-spectrum.adobe.com/react-aria/usePress.html)) => void</Code> | Handler that is called when a press interaction ends, either over the button or when the pointer leaves the button.     | -       |
| **onPressChange**        | `(isPressed: boolean) => void`                                                                    | Handler that is called when the press state changes.                                                                    | -       |

<Spacer y={1} />

#### Button Accessibility Props

| Attribute               | Type                                              | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   | Default |
| ----------------------- | ------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------- |
| **id**                  | `string`                                          | The element's unique identifier. See [MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Global_attributes/id)                                                                                                                                                                            | -       |
| **excludeFromTabOrder** | `boolean`                                         | Whether to exclude the element from the sequential tab order. If true, the element will not be focusable via the keyboard by tabbing. This should be avoided except in rare scenarios where an alternative means of accessing the element or its functionality via the keyboard is available. | -       |
| **aria-expanded**       | `boolean`                                         | Indicates whether the element, or another grouping element it controls, is currently expanded or collapsed.                                                                                                                                                                                   | -       |
| **aria-haspopup**       | `boolean` `menu` `listbox` `tree` `grid` `dialog` | Indicates the availability and type of interactive popup element, such as menu or dialog, that can be triggered by an element.                                                                                                                                                                | -       |
| **aria-controls**       | `string`                                          | Identifies the element (or elements) whose contents or presence are controlled by the current element.                                                                                                                                                                                        | -       |
| **aria-pressed**        | `boolean`                                         | Indicates the current "pressed" state of toggle buttons.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      | -       |
| **aria-label**          | `string`                                          | Defines a string value that labels the current element                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        | -       |
| **aria-labelledby**     | `string`                                          | Identifies the element (or elements) that labels the current element                                                                                                                                                                                                                          | -       |
| **aria-describedby**    | `string`                                          | Identifies the element (or elements) that describes the object.                                                                                                                                                                                                                               | -       |
| **aria-details**        | `string`                                          | Identifies the element (or elements) that provide a detailed, extended description for the object.                                                                                                                                                                                            | -       |

<Spacer y={2} />

### Button types

<Spacer y={1} />

#### Normal Colors

```ts
type NormalColors =
  | "default"
  | "primary"
  | "secondary"
  | "success"
  | "warning"
  | "error"
  | "gradient";
```

#### Normal Sizes

```ts
type NormalSizes = "xs" | "sm" | "md" | "lg" | "xl";
```

#### Normal Weights

```ts
type NormalWeights = "light" | "normal" | "bold" | "extrabold" | "black";
```
