apps/docs/content/docs/components/checkbox-group.mdx, before:

---
title: 'Checkbox Group'
description: 'A CheckboxGroup allows users to select one or more items from a list of choices.'
url: https://nextui.org/docs/components/checkbox-group
---

# Checkbox Group

A CheckboxGroup allows users to select one or more items from a list of choices. CheckboxGrup implementation is based on <a href="https://react-spectrum.adobe.com/react-aria/useCheckboxGroup.html" rel="noreferrer" target="_blank">
@react-aria/checkbox</a>

```jsx
import { Checkbox } from '@nextui-org/react';
```

<CarbonAd />

<Spacer y={2} />

<Playground
  title="Default"
  desc=" `Checkbox.Group` accepts multiple `Checkbox` elements as children. Each `Checkbox` represents an option that can be selected, labeled by its children."
  files={checkboxGroupContent.column}
/>

<Playground
  title="Row Group"
  desc="You can change the `Checkbox.Group` direction with the `isRow` prop."
  files={checkboxGroupContent.row}
/>

<Playground
  title="Controlled vs Uncontrolled"
  desc="An initial, **uncontrolled** value can be provided to the `Checkbox.Group` using the defaultValue prop. Alternatively, a **controlled** value can be provided using the value prop. Both of these props accept an array of selected items, which map to the value prop on each item."
  files={checkboxGroupContent.controlledVsUncontrolled}
/>

> Note: See React's documentation on [uncontrolled components](https://reactjs.org/docs/uncontrolled-components.html) for more info.

<Playground
  title="Events"
  desc="`Checkbox.Group` accepts an `onChange` prop, which is triggered when a user adds or removes an item from the selection. The example below uses `onChange` to log how the user is interacting with the component."
  files={checkboxGroupContent.events}
/>

> Accessibility: If a visible label isn't specified for a `Checkbox.Group`, an aria-label must be provided for accessibility. If the field is labeled by a separate element, an aria-labelledby prop must be provided using the id of the labeling element instead. Checkbox elements within a group should always have a visible label.

<Spacer y={3} />

### APIs

<Spacer y={2} />

#### Checkbox Group Props

| Attribute        | Type                                              | Description                                                        | Default   |
| ---------------- | ------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------ | --------- |
| **children\***   | [CheckboxGroupChildren](#checkbox-group-children) | The Checkboxes contained within the checkbox group.                | -         |
| **label**        | `ReactNode`                                       | The content to display as the label.                               | -         |
| **value**        | `string[]`                                        | The current value (controlled).                                    | -         |
| **defaultValue** | `string[]`                                        | The current value (uncontrolled).                                  | -         |
| **name**         | `string`                                          | The name of the checkbox group, used when submitting an HTML form. | -         |
| **isRow**        | `boolean`                                         | Whether the checkbox group is horizontal                           | `false`   |
| **size**         | [NormalSizes](#normal-sizes)                      | The size of the component                                          | `medium`  |
| **color**        | [NormalColors](#normal-colors)                    | The color of the component                                         | `default` |
| **labelColor**   | [SimpleColors](#simple-colors)                    | The color of the label                                             | `default` |
| **isDisabled**   | `boolean`                                         | Whether the checkbox group is disabled                             | `false`   |
| **isReadOnly**   | `boolean`                                         | Whether the input can be selected but not changed by the user.     | `false`   |
| **css**          | `Stitches.CSS`                                    | Override Default CSS style                                         | -         |
| **as**           | `keyof JSX.IntrinsicElements`                     | Changes which tag component outputs                                | `div`     |

<Spacer y={1} />

#### Checkbox Group Events

| Attribute    | Type                 | Description                                   | Default |
| ------------ | -------------------- | --------------------------------------------- | ------- |
| **onChange** | `(value: T) => void` | Handler that is called when the value changes | -       |

<Spacer y={1} />

#### Checkbox Group Accessibility Props

| Attribute             | Type     | Description                                                                                                        | Default |
| --------------------- | -------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | ------- |
| **id**                | `string` | The element's unique identifier. See [MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Global_attributes/id) | -       |
| **aria-label**        | `string` | Defines a string value that labels the current element                                                             | -       |
| **aria-labelledby**   | `string` | Identifies the element (or elements) that labels the current element                                               | -       |
| **aria-describedby**  | `string` | Identifies the element (or elements) that describes the object.                                                    | -       |
| **aria-details**      | `string` | Identifies the element (or elements) that provide a detailed, extended description for the object.                 | -       |
| **aria-errormessage** | `string` | Identifies the element that provides an error message for the object.                                              | -       |

<Spacer y={2} />

### Checkbox Group types

<Spacer y={1} />

#### Checkbox Group Children

```ts
type ReactElement<CheckboxProps> | ReactElement<CheckboxProps>[]
```

#### Normal Colors

```ts
type NormalColors =
  | 'default'
  | 'primary'
  | 'secondary'
  | 'success'
  | 'warning'
  | 'error'
  | 'gradient';
```

#### Simple Colors

```ts
type SimpleColors =
  | 'default'
  | 'primary'
  | 'secondary'
  | 'success'
  | 'warning'
  | 'error';
```

#### Normal Sizes

```ts
type NormalSizes = 'xs' | 'sm' | 'md' | 'lg' | 'xl';
```

Commit message:

refactor(react-radio): isRow prop changed by orientation horizontal

apps/docs/content/docs/components/checkbox-group.mdx, after:

---
title: 'Checkbox Group'
description: 'A CheckboxGroup allows users to select one or more items from a list of choices.'
url: https://nextui.org/docs/components/checkbox-group
---

# Checkbox Group

A CheckboxGroup allows users to select one or more items from a list of choices. CheckboxGrup implementation is based on <a href="https://react-spectrum.adobe.com/react-aria/useCheckboxGroup.html" rel="noreferrer" target="_blank">
@react-aria/checkbox</a>

```jsx
import { Checkbox } from '@nextui-org/react';
```

<CarbonAd />

<Spacer y={2} />

<Playground
  title="Default"
  desc=" `Checkbox.Group` accepts multiple `Checkbox` elements as children. Each `Checkbox` represents an option that can be selected, labeled by its children."
  files={checkboxGroupContent.column}
/>

<Playground
  title="Row"
  desc="Checkbox groups are vertically oriented by default. The `orientation` prop can be used to change the orientation to horizontal."
  files={checkboxGroupContent.row}
/>

<Playground
  title="Controlled vs Uncontrolled"
  desc="An initial, **uncontrolled** value can be provided to the `Checkbox.Group` using the defaultValue prop. Alternatively, a **controlled** value can be provided using the value prop. Both of these props accept an array of selected items, which map to the value prop on each item."
  files={checkboxGroupContent.controlledVsUncontrolled}
/>

> Note: See React's documentation on [uncontrolled components](https://reactjs.org/docs/uncontrolled-components.html) for more info.

<Playground
  title="Events"
  desc="`Checkbox.Group` accepts an `onChange` prop, which is triggered when a user adds or removes an item from the selection. The example below uses `onChange` to log how the user is interacting with the component."
  files={checkboxGroupContent.events}
/>

> Accessibility: If a visible label isn't specified for a `Checkbox.Group`, an aria-label must be provided for accessibility. If the field is labeled by a separate element, an aria-labelledby prop must be provided using the id of the labeling element instead. Checkbox elements within a group should always have a visible label.

<Spacer y={3} />

### APIs

<Spacer y={2} />

#### Checkbox Group Props

| Attribute        | Type                                              | Description                                                        | Default    |
| ---------------- | ------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------ | ---------- |
| **children\***   | [CheckboxGroupChildren](#checkbox-group-children) | The Checkboxes contained within the checkbox group.                | -          |
| **label**        | `ReactNode`                                       | The content to display as the label.                               | -          |
| **value**        | `string[]`                                        | The current value (controlled).                                    | -          |
| **defaultValue** | `string[]`                                        | The current value (uncontrolled).                                  | -          |
| **name**         | `string`                                          | The name of the checkbox group, used when submitting an HTML form. | -          |
| **orientation**  | `horizontal` `vertical`                           | The axis the checkbox group items should align with.               | `vertical` |
| **size**         | [NormalSizes](#normal-sizes)                      | The size of the component                                          | `medium`   |
| **color**        | [NormalColors](#normal-colors)                    | The color of the component                                         | `default`  |
| **labelColor**   | [SimpleColors](#simple-colors)                    | The color of the label                                             | `default`  |
| **isDisabled**   | `boolean`                                         | Whether the checkbox group is disabled                             | `false`    |
| **isReadOnly**   | `boolean`                                         | Whether the input can be selected but not changed by the user.     | `false`    |
| **css**          | `Stitches.CSS`                                    | Override Default CSS style                                         | -          |
| **as**           | `keyof JSX.IntrinsicElements`                     | Changes which tag component outputs                                | `div`      |

<Spacer y={1} />

#### Checkbox Group Events

| Attribute    | Type                 | Description                                   | Default |
| ------------ | -------------------- | --------------------------------------------- | ------- |
| **onChange** | `(value: T) => void` | Handler that is called when the value changes | -       |

<Spacer y={1} />

#### Checkbox Group Accessibility Props

| Attribute             | Type     | Description                                                                                                        | Default |
| --------------------- | -------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | ------- |
| **id**                | `string` | The element's unique identifier. See [MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Global_attributes/id) | -       |
| **aria-label**        | `string` | Defines a string value that labels the current element                                                             | -       |
| **aria-labelledby**   | `string` | Identifies the element (or elements) that labels the current element                                               | -       |
| **aria-describedby**  | `string` | Identifies the element (or elements) that describes the object.                                                    | -       |
| **aria-details**      | `string` | Identifies the element (or elements) that provide a detailed, extended description for the object.                 | -       |
| **aria-errormessage** | `string` | Identifies the element that provides an error message for the object.                                              | -       |

<Spacer y={2} />

### Checkbox Group types

<Spacer y={1} />

#### Checkbox Group Children

```ts
type ReactElement<CheckboxProps> | ReactElement<CheckboxProps>[]
```

#### Normal Colors

```ts
type NormalColors =
  | 'default'
  | 'primary'
  | 'secondary'
  | 'success'
  | 'warning'
  | 'error'
  | 'gradient';
```

#### Simple Colors

```ts
type SimpleColors =
  | 'default'
  | 'primary'
  | 'secondary'
  | 'success'
  | 'warning'
  | 'error';
```

#### Normal Sizes

```ts
type NormalSizes = 'xs' | 'sm' | 'md' | 'lg' | 'xl';
```
