apps/docs/content/docs/components/checkbox.mdx, before:

---
title: "Checkbox"
description: "Checkboxes allow users to select multiple items from a list of individual items, or to mark one individual item as selected."
---

import {checkboxContent} from "@/content/components/checkbox";

# Checkbox

Checkboxes allow users to select multiple items from a list of individual items, or to mark one individual item as selected.

<ComponentLinks component="checkbox" reactAriaHook="useCheckbox" />

---

<CarbonAd/>

## Import

<ImportTabs
  commands={{
    main: 'import {Checkbox} from "@nextui-org/react";',
    individual: 'import {Checkbox} from "@nextui-org/checkbox";',
  }}
/>

## Usage

<CodeDemo title="Usage" files={checkboxContent.usage} />

### Disabled

<CodeDemo title="Disabled" files={checkboxContent.disabled} />

### Sizes

<CodeDemo title="Sizes" files={checkboxContent.sizes} />

### Colors

<CodeDemo title="Colors" files={checkboxContent.colors} />

### Radius

<CodeDemo title="Radius" files={checkboxContent.radius} />

### Indeterminate

The `isIndeterminate` prop sets a `Checkbox` to an indeterminate state, overriding its appearance and maintaining it until set to `false`, regardless of user interaction.

<CodeDemo title="Indeterminate" files={checkboxContent.indeterminate} />

### Line Through

<CodeDemo title="Line Through" files={checkboxContent.lineThrough} />

### Custom Check Icon

<CodeDemo title="Custom Check Icon" files={checkboxContent.customCheckIcon} />

### Controlled

<CodeDemo title="Controlled Checkbox" files={checkboxContent.controlled} />

> **Note**: NextUI `Checkbox` also supports native events like `onChange`, useful for form libraries
> such as [Formik](https://formik.org/) and [React Hook Form](https://react-hook-form.com/).

## Slots

- **base**: Checkbox wrapper, it handles alignment, placement, and general appearance.
- **wrapper**: An inner container that includes styles for relative positioning, flex properties, overflow handling and managing hover and selected states.
- **icon**: Icon within the checkbox, controlling size, visibility, and changes when checked.
- **label**: The text associated with the checkbox.

### Custom Styles

You can customize the `Checkbox` component by passing custom Tailwind CSS classes to the component slots.

<CodeDemo title="Custom Styles" files={checkboxContent.customStyles} />

### Custom Implementation

In case you need to customize the checkbox even further, you can use the `useCheckbox` hook to create your own implementation.

<CodeDemo title="Custom Implementation" files={checkboxContent.customImplementation} />

> **Note**: We used [Tailwind Variants](https://www.tailwind-variants.org/) to implement the styles above, you can use any other library such as [clsx](https://www.npmjs.com/package/clsx) to achieve the same result.

<Spacer y={4} />

## Data Attributes

`Checkbox` has the following attributes on the `base` element:

- **data-selected**:
  When the checkbox is checked. Based on `isSelected` prop.
- **data-pressed**:
  When the checkbox is pressed. Based on [usePress](https://react-spectrum.adobe.com/react-aria/usePress.html)
- **data-invalid**:
  When the checkbox is invalid. Based on `validationState` prop.
- **data-readonly**:
  When the checkbox is readonly. Based on `isReadOnly` prop.
- **data-indeterminate**:
  When the checkbox is indeterminate. Based on `isIndeterminate` prop.
- **data-hover**:
  When the checkbox is being hovered. Based on [useHover](https://react-spectrum.adobe.com/react-aria/useHover.html)
- **data-focus**:
  When the checkbox is being focused. Based on [useFocusRing](https://react-spectrum.adobe.com/react-aria/useFocusRing.html).
- **data-focus-visible**:
  When the checkbox is being focused with the keyboard. Based on [useFocusRing](https://react-spectrum.adobe.com/react-aria/useFocusRing.html).
- **data-disabled**:
  When the checkbox is disabled. Based on `isDisabled` prop.
- **data-loading**:
  When the checkbox is loading. Based on `isLoading` prop.

<Spacer y={4} />{" "}

## Accessibility

- Built with a native HTML `<input>` element.
- Full support for browser features like form autofill.
- Keyboard focus management and cross browser normalization.
- Keyboard event support for <Kbd>Tab</Kbd> and <Kbd>Space</Kbd> keys.
- Labeling support for assistive technology.
- Indeterminate state support.

<Spacer y={4} />

## API

### Checkbox Props

| Attribute        | Type                                                                        | Description                                                                                                           | Default   |
| ---------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------- |
| children         | `ReactNode`                                                                 | The label of the checkbox.                                                                                            | -         |
| icon             | [CheckboxIconProps](#checkbox-icon-props)                                   | The icon to be displayed when the checkbox is checked.                                                                | -         |
| value            | `string`                                                                    | The value of the input element, used when submitting an HTML form.                                                    |           |
| name             | `string`                                                                    | The name of the input element, used when submitting an HTML form.                                                     |           |
| size             | `sm` \| `md` \| `lg`                                                        | The size of the checkbox.                                                                                             | `md`      |
| color            | `default` \| `primary` \| `secondary` \| `success` \| `warning` \| `danger` | The color of the checkbox.                                                                                            | `primary` |
| radius           | `none` \| `sm` \| `md` \| `lg` \| `full`                                    | The radius of the checkbox.                                                                                           | -         |
| lineThrough      | `boolean`                                                                   | Whether the label should be crossed out.                                                                              | `false`   |
| isSelected       | `boolean`                                                                   | Whether the element should be selected (controlled).                                                                  |           |
| defaultSelected  | `boolean`                                                                   | Whether the element should be selected (uncontrolled).                                                                |           |
| validationState  | `valid` \| `invalid`                                                        | Whether the input should display its "valid" or "invalid" visual styling.                                             | -         |
| isRequired       | `boolean`                                                                   | Whether user input is required on the input before form submission.                                                   | `false`   |
| isReadOnly       | `boolean`                                                                   | Whether the input can be selected but not changed by the user.                                                        |           |
| isDisabled       | `boolean`                                                                   | Whether the checkbox is disabled.                                                                                     | `false`   |
| isIndeterminate  | `boolean`                                                                   | Indeterminism is presentational only. The indeterminate visual representation remains regardless of user interaction. |           |
| disableAnimation | `boolean`                                                                   | Whether the animation should be disabled.                                                                             | `false`   |
| classNames       | `Record<"base"｜ "wrapper"｜ "icon"｜ "label", string>`                     | Allows to set custom class names for the checkbox slots.                                                              | -         |

### Checkbox Events

| Attribute     | Type                                  | Description                                                                                                                                              |
| ------------- | ------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| onChange      | `React.ChangeEvent<HTMLInputElement>` | Handler that is called when the element's selection state changes. You can pull out the new checked state by accessing `event.target.checked` (boolean). |
| onValueChange | `(isSelected: boolean) => void`       | Handler that is called when the element's selection state changes.                                                                                       |

### Types

#### Checkbox Icon Props

```ts
type IconProps = {
  "data-checked": string;
  isSelected: boolean;
  isIndeterminate: boolean;
  disableAnimation: boolean;
  className: string;
};

type CheckboxIconProps = ReactNode | ((props: IconProps) => ReactNode);
```

Commit message:

fix(packages): validation state deprecated, isInvalid prop adjusted (#1631)

apps/docs/content/docs/components/checkbox.mdx, after:

---
title: "Checkbox"
description: "Checkboxes allow users to select multiple items from a list of individual items, or to mark one individual item as selected."
---

import {checkboxContent} from "@/content/components/checkbox";

# Checkbox

Checkboxes allow users to select multiple items from a list of individual items, or to mark one individual item as selected.

<ComponentLinks component="checkbox" reactAriaHook="useCheckbox" />

---

<CarbonAd />

## Import

<ImportTabs
  commands={{
    main: 'import {Checkbox} from "@nextui-org/react";',
    individual: 'import {Checkbox} from "@nextui-org/checkbox";',
  }}
/>

## Usage

<CodeDemo title="Usage" files={checkboxContent.usage} />

### Disabled

<CodeDemo title="Disabled" files={checkboxContent.disabled} />

### Sizes

<CodeDemo title="Sizes" files={checkboxContent.sizes} />

### Colors

<CodeDemo title="Colors" files={checkboxContent.colors} />

### Radius

<CodeDemo title="Radius" files={checkboxContent.radius} />

### Indeterminate

The `isIndeterminate` prop sets a `Checkbox` to an indeterminate state, overriding its appearance and maintaining it until set to `false`, regardless of user interaction.

<CodeDemo title="Indeterminate" files={checkboxContent.indeterminate} />

### Line Through

<CodeDemo title="Line Through" files={checkboxContent.lineThrough} />

### Custom Check Icon

<CodeDemo title="Custom Check Icon" files={checkboxContent.customCheckIcon} />

### Controlled

<CodeDemo title="Controlled Checkbox" files={checkboxContent.controlled} />

> **Note**: NextUI `Checkbox` also supports native events like `onChange`, useful for form libraries
> such as [Formik](https://formik.org/) and [React Hook Form](https://react-hook-form.com/).

## Slots

- **base**: Checkbox wrapper, it handles alignment, placement, and general appearance.
- **wrapper**: An inner container that includes styles for relative positioning, flex properties, overflow handling and managing hover and selected states.
- **icon**: Icon within the checkbox, controlling size, visibility, and changes when checked.
- **label**: The text associated with the checkbox.

### Custom Styles

You can customize the `Checkbox` component by passing custom Tailwind CSS classes to the component slots.

<CodeDemo title="Custom Styles" files={checkboxContent.customStyles} />

### Custom Implementation

In case you need to customize the checkbox even further, you can use the `useCheckbox` hook to create your own implementation.

<CodeDemo title="Custom Implementation" files={checkboxContent.customImplementation} />

> **Note**: We used [Tailwind Variants](https://www.tailwind-variants.org/) to implement the styles above, you can use any other library such as [clsx](https://www.npmjs.com/package/clsx) to achieve the same result.

<Spacer y={4} />

## Data Attributes

`Checkbox` has the following attributes on the `base` element:

- **data-selected**:
  When the checkbox is checked. Based on `isSelected` prop.
- **data-pressed**:
  When the checkbox is pressed. Based on [usePress](https://react-spectrum.adobe.com/react-aria/usePress.html)
- **data-invalid**:
  When the checkbox is invalid. Based on `validationState` prop.
- **data-readonly**:
  When the checkbox is readonly. Based on `isReadOnly` prop.
- **data-indeterminate**:
  When the checkbox is indeterminate. Based on `isIndeterminate` prop.
- **data-hover**:
  When the checkbox is being hovered. Based on [useHover](https://react-spectrum.adobe.com/react-aria/useHover.html)
- **data-focus**:
  When the checkbox is being focused. Based on [useFocusRing](https://react-spectrum.adobe.com/react-aria/useFocusRing.html).
- **data-focus-visible**:
  When the checkbox is being focused with the keyboard. Based on [useFocusRing](https://react-spectrum.adobe.com/react-aria/useFocusRing.html).
- **data-disabled**:
  When the checkbox is disabled. Based on `isDisabled` prop.
- **data-loading**:
  When the checkbox is loading. Based on `isLoading` prop.

<Spacer y={4} />{" "}

## Accessibility

- Built with a native HTML `<input>` element.
- Full support for browser features like form autofill.
- Keyboard focus management and cross browser normalization.
- Keyboard event support for <Kbd>Tab</Kbd> and <Kbd>Space</Kbd> keys.
- Labeling support for assistive technology.
- Indeterminate state support.

<Spacer y={4} />

## API

### Checkbox Props

| Attribute        | Type                                                                        | Description                                                                                                           | Default   |
| ---------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------- |
| children         | `ReactNode`                                                                 | The label of the checkbox.                                                                                            | -         |
| icon             | [CheckboxIconProps](#checkbox-icon-props)                                   | The icon to be displayed when the checkbox is checked.                                                                | -         |
| value            | `string`                                                                    | The value of the checkbox element, used when submitting an HTML form.                                                    |           |
| name             | `string`                                                                    | The name of the checkbox element, used when submitting an HTML form.                                                     |           |
| size             | `sm` \| `md` \| `lg`                                                        | The size of the checkbox.                                                                                             | `md`      |
| color            | `default` \| `primary` \| `secondary` \| `success` \| `warning` \| `danger` | The color of the checkbox.                                                                                            | `primary` |
| radius           | `none` \| `sm` \| `md` \| `lg` \| `full`                                    | The radius of the checkbox.                                                                                           | -         |
| lineThrough      | `boolean`                                                                   | Whether the label should be crossed out.                                                                              | `false`   |
| isSelected       | `boolean`                                                                   | Whether the element should be selected (controlled).                                                                  |           |
| defaultSelected  | `boolean`                                                                   | Whether the element should be selected (uncontrolled).                                                                |           |
| isRequired       | `boolean`                                                                   | Whether user checkbox is required on the checkbox before form submission.                                                   | `false`   |
| isReadOnly       | `boolean`                                                                   | Whether the checkbox can be selected but not changed by the user.                                                        |           |
| isDisabled       | `boolean`                                                                   | Whether the checkbox is disabled.                                                                                     | `false`   |
| isIndeterminate  | `boolean`                                                                   | Indeterminism is presentational only. The indeterminate visual representation remains regardless of user interaction. |           |
| isInvalid        | `boolean`                                                                   | Whether the checkbox is invalid.                                                                                         | `false`   |
| validationState  | `valid` \| `invalid`                                                        | Whether the checkbox should display its "valid" or "invalid" visual styling. (**Deprecated**) use **isInvalid** instead. | -         |
| disableAnimation | `boolean`                                                                   | Whether the animation should be disabled.                                                                             | `false`   |
| classNames       | `Record<"base"｜ "wrapper"｜ "icon"｜ "label", string>`                     | Allows to set custom class names for the checkbox slots.                                                              | -         |

### Checkbox Events

| Attribute     | Type                                  | Description                                                                                                                                              |
| ------------- | ------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| onChange      | `React.ChangeEvent<HTMLInputElement>` | Handler that is called when the element's selection state changes. You can pull out the new checked state by accessing `event.target.checked` (boolean). |
| onValueChange | `(isSelected: boolean) => void`       | Handler that is called when the element's selection state changes.                                                                                       |

### Types

#### Checkbox Icon Props

```ts
type IconProps = {
  "data-checked": string;
  isSelected: boolean;
  isIndeterminate: boolean;
  disableAnimation: boolean;
  className: string;
};

type CheckboxIconProps = ReactNode | ((props: IconProps) => ReactNode);
```
