apps/docs/content/docs/components/circular-progress.mdx, before:

---
title: "Circular Progress"
description: "Circular progress indicators are utilized to indicate an undetermined wait period or visually represent the duration of a process."
url: https://nextui.org/docs/components/circular-progress
---

# Circular Progress

Circular progress indicators are utilized to indicate an undetermined wait period or visually represent the duration of a process.

<ComponentLinks component="progress" storybook="circularprogress" reactAriaHook="useProgressBar" />

---

```jsx
import {CircularProgress} from "@nextui-org/react";
```

## Usage

<CodeDemo title="Usage" files={circularProgressContent.usage} />

### Sizes

<CodeDemo title="Sizes" files={circularProgressContent.sizes} />

### Colors

<CodeDemo title="Colors" files={circularProgressContent.colors} />

### With Label

<CodeDemo title="With Label" files={circularProgressContent.label} />

### With Value

<CodeDemo title="With Value" files={circularProgressContent.value} />

### Value Formatting

Values are formatted as a percentage by default, but this can be modified by using the
`formatOptions` prop to specify a different format. `formatOptions` is compatible with the
option parameter of [Intl.NumberFormat](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Intl/NumberFormat) and is applied based on the current locale.

<CodeDemo
  title="Value Formatting"
  files={circularProgressContent.valueFormatting}
  highlightedLines="10"
/>

## Slots

- **base**: The base slot of the circular progress, it is the main container.
- **svgWrapper**: The wrapper of the svg circles and the value label.
- **svg**: The svg element of the circles.
- **track**: The track is the background circle of the circular progress.
- **indicator**: The indicator is the one that is filled according to the `value`.
- **value**: The value content.
- **label**: The label content.

### Custom Styles

<CodeDemo
  title="Custom Styles"
  files={circularProgressContent.customStyles}
  highlightedLines="9-12"
/>

## API

### Circular Progress Props

| Attribute        | Type                                                                                                                    | Description                                                | Default              |
| ---------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------- |
| label            | `ReactNode`                                                                                                             | The content to display as the label.                       | -                    |
| value            | `number`                                                                                                                | The current value (controlled).                            | -                    |
| size             | `xs` \| `sm` \| `md` \| `lg` \| `xl`                                                                                    | The size of the indicator.                                 | `md`                 |
| color            | `default` \| `primary` \| `secondary` \| `success` \| `warning` \| `danger`                                             | The color of the indicator.                                | `primary`            |
| minValue         | `number`                                                                                                                | The smallest value allowed for the input.                  | `0`                  |
| maxValue         | `number`                                                                                                                | The largest value allowed for the input.                   | `100`                |
| valueLabel       | `ReactNode`                                                                                                             | The content to display as the value's label (e.g. 1 of 4). | -                    |
| formatOptions    | [Intl.NumberFormat](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Intl/NumberFormat) | The options to format the value.                           | `{style: 'percent'}` |
| isIndeterminate  | `boolean`                                                                                                               | Whether the progress is indeterminate.                     | `true`               |
| showValueLabel   | `boolean`                                                                                                               | Whether to show the value label.                           | `true`               |
| strokeWidth      | `number`                                                                                                                | The width of the progress stroke.                          | `2`                  |
| disableAnimation | `boolean`                                                                                                               | Whether to disable the animation.                          | `false`              |

Commit message:

feat(docs): circular progress improved

apps/docs/content/docs/components/circular-progress.mdx, after:

---
title: "Circular Progress"
description: "Circular progress indicators are utilized to indicate an undetermined wait period or visually represent the duration of a process."
url: https://nextui.org/docs/components/circular-progress
---

# Circular Progress

Circular progress indicators are utilized to indicate an undetermined wait period or visually represent the duration of a process.

<ComponentLinks component="progress" storybook="circularprogress" reactAriaHook="useProgressBar" />

---

```jsx
import {CircularProgress} from "@nextui-org/react";
```

## Usage

<CodeDemo title="Usage" files={circularProgressContent.usage} />

> **Note**: Make sure to pass the `aria-label` prop when the `label` prop is not provided. This is required for accessibility.

### Sizes

<CodeDemo title="Sizes" files={circularProgressContent.sizes} />

### Colors

<CodeDemo title="Colors" files={circularProgressContent.colors} />

### With Label

<CodeDemo title="With Label" files={circularProgressContent.label} />

### With Value

<CodeDemo title="With Value" files={circularProgressContent.value} />

### Value Formatting

Values are formatted as a percentage by default, but this can be modified by using the
`formatOptions` prop to specify a different format. `formatOptions` is compatible with the
option parameter of [Intl.NumberFormat](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Intl/NumberFormat) and is applied based on the current locale.

<CodeDemo
  title="Value Formatting"
  files={circularProgressContent.valueFormatting}
  highlightedLines="10"
/>

## Slots

- **base**: The base slot of the circular progress, it is the main container.
- **svgWrapper**: The wrapper of the svg circles and the value label.
- **svg**: The svg element of the circles.
- **track**: The track is the background circle of the circular progress.
- **indicator**: The indicator is the one that is filled according to the `value`.
- **value**: The value content.
- **label**: The label content.

### Custom Styles

<CodeDemo
  title="Custom Styles"
  files={circularProgressContent.customStyles}
  highlightedLines="9-12"
/>

## Data Attributes

`CircularProgress` has the following attributes on the `root` element:

- **data-indeterminate**:
  Indicates whether the progress is indeterminate.
- **data-disabled**:
  Indicates whether the progress is disabled. Based on `isDisabled` prop.

## Accessibility

- Exposed to assistive technology as a progress bar via ARIA.
- Labeling support for accessibility.
- Internationalized number formatting as a percentage or value.
- Determinate and indeterminate progress support.

## API

### Circular Progress Props

| Attribute        | Type                                                                                                                    | Description                                                | Default              |
| ---------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------- |
| label            | `ReactNode`                                                                                                             | The content to display as the label.                       | -                    |
| value            | `number`                                                                                                                | The current value (controlled).                            | -                    |
| size             | `xs` \| `sm` \| `md` \| `lg` \| `xl`                                                                                    | The size of the indicator.                                 | `md`                 |
| color            | `default` \| `primary` \| `secondary` \| `success` \| `warning` \| `danger`                                             | The color of the indicator.                                | `primary`            |
| minValue         | `number`                                                                                                                | The smallest value allowed for the input.                  | `0`                  |
| maxValue         | `number`                                                                                                                | The largest value allowed for the input.                   | `100`                |
| valueLabel       | `ReactNode`                                                                                                             | The content to display as the value's label (e.g. 1 of 4). | -                    |
| formatOptions    | [Intl.NumberFormat](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Intl/NumberFormat) | The options to format the value.                           | `{style: 'percent'}` |
| isIndeterminate  | `boolean`                                                                                                               | Whether the progress is indeterminate.                     | `true`               |
| showValueLabel   | `boolean`                                                                                                               | Whether to show the value label.                           | `true`               |
| strokeWidth      | `number`                                                                                                                | The width of the progress stroke.                          | `2`                  |
| isDisabled       | `boolean`                                                                                                               | Whether the progress is disabled.                          | `false`              |
| disableAnimation | `boolean`                                                                                                               | Whether to disable the animation.                          | `false`              |
