apps/docs/content/docs/components/input.mdx, before:

---
title: "Input"
description: "Input is a component that allows users to enter text. It can be used to get user inputs in forms, search fields, and more."
---

import {inputContent} from "@/content/components/input";

# Input

Input is a component that allows users to enter text. It can be used to get user inputs in forms, search fields, and more.

<ComponentLinks component="input" reactAriaHook="useTextField" />

---

<CarbonAd />

## Import

<ImportTabs
  commands={{
    main: 'import {Input} from "@nextui-org/react";',
    individual: 'import {Input} from "@nextui-org/input";',
  }}
/>

## Usage

<CodeDemo title="Usage" files={inputContent.usage} />

### Disabled

<CodeDemo title="Disabled" files={inputContent.disabled} />

### Read Only

<CodeDemo title="Read Only" files={inputContent.readOnly} />

### Required

If you pass the `isRequired` property to the input, it will have a `danger` asterisk at
the end of the label and the input will be required.

<CodeDemo title="Required" files={inputContent.required} />

### Sizes

<CodeDemo title="Sizes" files={inputContent.sizes} />

### Colors

<CodeDemo title="Colors" files={inputContent.colors} />

### Variants

<CodeDemo title="Variants" files={inputContent.variants} />

### Radius

<CodeDemo title="Radius" files={inputContent.radius} />

### Label Placements

You can change the position of the label by setting the `labelPlacement` property to `inside`, `outside` or `outside-left`.

<CodeDemo title="Label Placements" files={inputContent.labelPlacements} />

> **Note**: If the `label` is not passed, the `labelPlacement` property will be `outside` by default.

### Password Input

You can use the `type` property to change the input type to `password`.

<CodeDemo title="Password Input" highlightedLines="24" files={inputContent.password} />

### Clear Button

If you pass the `isClearable` property to the input, it will have a clear button at the
end of the input, it will be visible when the input has a value.

<CodeDemo title="Clear Button" highlightedLines="6" files={inputContent.clearButton} />

### Start & End Content

You can use the `startContent` and `endContent` properties to add content to the start and end of the input.

<CodeDemo title="Start and End Content" files={inputContent.startEndContent} />

### With Description

You can add a description to the input by passing the `description` property.

<CodeDemo title="With Description" files={inputContent.description} />

### With Error Message

You can combine the `isInvalid` and `errorMessage` properties to show an invalid input.

<CodeDemo title="With Error Message" files={inputContent.errorMessage} />

Example with `regex` email validation:

<CodeDemo title="With Regex Validation" files={inputContent.regexValidation} />

### Controlled

You can use the `value` and `onValueChange` properties to control the input value.

<CodeDemo title="Controlled" files={inputContent.controlled} />

> **Note**: NextUI `Input` also supports native events like `onChange`, useful for form libraries
> such as [Formik](https://formik.org/) and [React Hook Form](https://react-hook-form.com/).

## Slots

- **base**: Input wrapper, it handles alignment, placement, and general appearance.
- **label**: Label of the input, it is the one that is displayed above, inside or left of the input.
- **mainWrapper**: Wraps the `inputWrapper` when position is `outside` / `outside-left`.
- **inputWrapper**: Wraps the `label` (when it is inside) and the `innerWrapper`.
- **innerWrapper**: Wraps the `input`, the `startContent` and the `endContent`.
- **input**: The input element.
- **clearButton**: The clear button, it is at the end of the input.
- **helperWrapper**: Wraps the `description` and the `errorMessage`.
- **description**: The description of the input.
- **errorMessage**: The error message of the input.

### Custom Styles

You can customize the `Input` component by passing custom Tailwind CSS classes to the component slots.

<CodeDemo title="Custom Styles" highlightedLines="14-32" files={inputContent.customStyles} />

### Custom Implementation

In case you need to customize the input even further, you can use the `useInput` hook to create your own implementation.

<CodeDemo
  showPreview={false}
  showOpenInCodeSandbox={true}
  title="Custom Implementation"
  files={inputContent.customImpl}
/>

<Spacer y={4} />{" "}

## Data Attributes

`Input` has the following attributes on the `base` element:

- **data-invalid**:
  When the input is invalid. Based on `isInvalid` prop.
- **data-required**:
  When the input is required. Based on `isRequired` prop.
- **data-readonly**:
  When the input is readonly. Based on `isReadOnly` prop.
- **data-hover**:
  When the input is being hovered. Based on [useHover](https://react-spectrum.adobe.com/react-aria/useHover.html)
- **data-focus**:
  When the input is being focused. Based on [useFocusRing](https://react-spectrum.adobe.com/react-aria/useFocusRing.html).
- **data-focus-within**:
  When the input is being focused or any of its children. Based on [useFocusWithin](https://react-spectrum.adobe.com/react-aria/useFocusWithin.html).
- **data-focus-visible**:
  When the input is being focused with the keyboard. Based on [useFocusRing](https://react-spectrum.adobe.com/react-aria/useFocusRing.html).
- **data-disabled**:
  When the input is disabled. Based on `isDisabled` prop.

<Spacer y={4} />{" "}

## Accessibility

- Built with a native `<input>` element.
- Visual and ARIA labeling support.
- Change, clipboard, composition, selection, and input event support.
- Required and invalid states exposed to assistive technology via ARIA.
- Support for description and error message help text linked to the input via ARIA.

<Spacer y={4} />{" "}

## API

### Input Props

| Attribute        | Type                                                                                                                                                                   | Description                                                                                                           | Default   |
| ---------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------- |
| children         | `ReactNode`                                                                                                                                                            | The content of the input.                                                                                             | -         |
| variant          | `flat` \| `bordered` \| `faded` \| `underlined`                                                                                                                        | The variant of the input.                                                                                             | `flat`    |
| color            | `default` \| `primary` \| `secondary` \| `success` \| `warning` \| `danger`                                                                                            | The color of the input.                                                                                               | `default` |
| size             | `sm` \| `md` \| `lg`                                                                                                                                                   | The size of the input.                                                                                                | `md`      |
| radius           | `none` \| `sm` \| `md` \| `lg` \| `full`                                                                                                                               | The radius of the input.                                                                                              | -         |
| label            | `ReactNode`                                                                                                                                                            | The content to display as the label.                                                                                  | -         |
| value            | `string`                                                                                                                                                               | The current value of the input (controlled).                                                                          | -         |
| defaultValue     | `string`                                                                                                                                                               | The default value of the input (uncontrolled).                                                                        | -         |
| placeholder      | `string`                                                                                                                                                               | The placeholder of the input.                                                                                         | -         |
| description      | `ReactNode`                                                                                                                                                            | A description for the input. Provides a hint such as specific requirements for what to choose.                        | -         |
| errorMessage     | `ReactNode`                                                                                                                                                            | An error message for the input.                                                                                       | -         |
| startContent     | `ReactNode`                                                                                                                                                            | Element to be rendered in the left side of the input.                                                                 | -         |
| endContent       | `ReactNode`                                                                                                                                                            | Element to be rendered in the right side of the input.                                                                | -         |
| labelPlacement   | `inside` \| `outside` \| `outside-left`                                                                                                                                | The position of the label.                                                                                            | `inside`  |
| fullWidth        | `boolean`                                                                                                                                                              | Whether the input should take up the width of its parent.                                                             | `true`    |
| isClearable      | `boolean`                                                                                                                                                              | Whether the input should have a clear button.                                                                         | `false`   |
| isRequired       | `boolean`                                                                                                                                                              | Whether user input is required on the input before form submission.                                                   | `false`   |
| isReadOnly       | `boolean`                                                                                                                                                              | Whether the input can be selected but not changed by the user.                                                        |           |
| isDisabled       | `boolean`                                                                                                                                                              | Whether the input is disabled.                                                                                        | `false`   |
| isInvalid        | `boolean`                                                                                                                                                              | Whether the input is invalid.                                                                                         | `false`   |
| baseRef          | `RefObject<HTMLDivElement>`                                                                                                                                            | The ref to the base element.                                                                                          | -         |
| validationState  | `valid` \| `invalid`                                                                                                                                                   | Whether the input should display its "valid" or "invalid" visual styling. (**Deprecated**) use **isInvalid** instead. | -         |
| disableAnimation | `boolean`                                                                                                                                                              | Whether the input should be animated.                                                                                 | `false`   |
| classNames       | `Record<"base"｜ "label"｜ "inputWrapper"｜ "innerWrapper"｜ "mainWrapper" ｜ "input" ｜ "clearButton" ｜ "helperWrapper" ｜ "description" ｜ "errorMessage", string>`    | Allows to set custom class names for the Input slots.                                                              | -         |

### Input Events

| Attribute     | Type                                  | Description                                                                                                                         |
| ------------- | ------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| onChange      | `React.ChangeEvent<HTMLInputElement>` | Handler that is called when the element's value changes. You can pull out the new value by accessing `event.target.value` (string). |
| onValueChange | `(value: string) => void`             | Handler that is called when the element's value changes.                                                                            |
| onClear       | `() => void`                          | Handler that is called when the clear button is clicked.                                                                            |

Commit message:

Upgrade to new react aria version (#2561)
* chore(root): pkg upgraded

* fix: type error

* fix: build error

* chore: update packages from a~d

* chore: update packages from i~r

* chore: update packages from s~u

* chore: update core, hooks, and utilities packages

* feat: add support radio group validationBehavior props

* fix: validationBehavior default to native

* chore: add validationBehavior props in RadioGroup Stories

* fix: handling of errorMessage

* chore: add support validationBehavior autocomplete

* chore: partial support for validation of select

* chore: add support validationBehavior checkbox

* chore: change validationBehavior default to native

* Merge branch 'v.2.3.0' into feat/upgrade-react-aria

* fix: validation logic

* fix: add default value for autocomplete

* chore: add example using error message function

* chore: fixed error displayed in storybook

* chore: omit validationBehavior from component props

* chore: update docs and storybook on validate

* fix: pnpm-lock version

---------

Co-authored-by: Junior Garcia <jrgarciadev@gmail.com>

apps/docs/content/docs/components/input.mdx, after:

---
title: "Input"
description: "Input is a component that allows users to enter text. It can be used to get user inputs in forms, search fields, and more."
---

import {inputContent} from "@/content/components/input";

# Input

Input is a component that allows users to enter text. It can be used to get user inputs in forms, search fields, and more.

<ComponentLinks component="input" reactAriaHook="useTextField" />

---

<CarbonAd />

## Import

<ImportTabs
  commands={{
    main: 'import {Input} from "@nextui-org/react";',
    individual: 'import {Input} from "@nextui-org/input";',
  }}
/>

## Usage

<CodeDemo title="Usage" files={inputContent.usage} />

### Disabled

<CodeDemo title="Disabled" files={inputContent.disabled} />

### Read Only

<CodeDemo title="Read Only" files={inputContent.readOnly} />

### Required

If you pass the `isRequired` property to the input, it will have a `danger` asterisk at
the end of the label and the input will be required.

<CodeDemo title="Required" files={inputContent.required} />

### Sizes

<CodeDemo title="Sizes" files={inputContent.sizes} />

### Colors

<CodeDemo title="Colors" files={inputContent.colors} />

### Variants

<CodeDemo title="Variants" files={inputContent.variants} />

### Radius

<CodeDemo title="Radius" files={inputContent.radius} />

### Label Placements

You can change the position of the label by setting the `labelPlacement` property to `inside`, `outside` or `outside-left`.

<CodeDemo title="Label Placements" files={inputContent.labelPlacements} />

> **Note**: If the `label` is not passed, the `labelPlacement` property will be `outside` by default.

### Password Input

You can use the `type` property to change the input type to `password`.

<CodeDemo title="Password Input" highlightedLines="24" files={inputContent.password} />

### Clear Button

If you pass the `isClearable` property to the input, it will have a clear button at the
end of the input, it will be visible when the input has a value.

<CodeDemo title="Clear Button" highlightedLines="6" files={inputContent.clearButton} />

### Start & End Content

You can use the `startContent` and `endContent` properties to add content to the start and end of the input.

<CodeDemo title="Start and End Content" files={inputContent.startEndContent} />

### With Description

You can add a description to the input by passing the `description` property.

<CodeDemo title="With Description" files={inputContent.description} />

### With Error Message

You can combine the `isInvalid` and `errorMessage` properties to show an invalid input.

<CodeDemo title="With Error Message" files={inputContent.errorMessage} />

Example with `regex` email validation:

<CodeDemo title="With Regex Validation" files={inputContent.regexValidation} />

### Controlled

You can use the `value` and `onValueChange` properties to control the input value.

<CodeDemo title="Controlled" files={inputContent.controlled} />

> **Note**: NextUI `Input` also supports native events like `onChange`, useful for form libraries
> such as [Formik](https://formik.org/) and [React Hook Form](https://react-hook-form.com/).

## Slots

- **base**: Input wrapper, it handles alignment, placement, and general appearance.
- **label**: Label of the input, it is the one that is displayed above, inside or left of the input.
- **mainWrapper**: Wraps the `inputWrapper` when position is `outside` / `outside-left`.
- **inputWrapper**: Wraps the `label` (when it is inside) and the `innerWrapper`.
- **innerWrapper**: Wraps the `input`, the `startContent` and the `endContent`.
- **input**: The input element.
- **clearButton**: The clear button, it is at the end of the input.
- **helperWrapper**: Wraps the `description` and the `errorMessage`.
- **description**: The description of the input.
- **errorMessage**: The error message of the input.

### Custom Styles

You can customize the `Input` component by passing custom Tailwind CSS classes to the component slots.

<CodeDemo title="Custom Styles" highlightedLines="14-32" files={inputContent.customStyles} />

### Custom Implementation

In case you need to customize the input even further, you can use the `useInput` hook to create your own implementation.

<CodeDemo
  showPreview={false}
  showOpenInCodeSandbox={true}
  title="Custom Implementation"
  files={inputContent.customImpl}
/>

<Spacer y={4} />{" "}

## Data Attributes

`Input` has the following attributes on the `base` element:

- **data-invalid**:
  When the input is invalid. Based on `isInvalid` prop.
- **data-required**:
  When the input is required. Based on `isRequired` prop.
- **data-readonly**:
  When the input is readonly. Based on `isReadOnly` prop.
- **data-hover**:
  When the input is being hovered. Based on [useHover](https://react-spectrum.adobe.com/react-aria/useHover.html)
- **data-focus**:
  When the input is being focused. Based on [useFocusRing](https://react-spectrum.adobe.com/react-aria/useFocusRing.html).
- **data-focus-within**:
  When the input is being focused or any of its children. Based on [useFocusWithin](https://react-spectrum.adobe.com/react-aria/useFocusWithin.html).
- **data-focus-visible**:
  When the input is being focused with the keyboard. Based on [useFocusRing](https://react-spectrum.adobe.com/react-aria/useFocusRing.html).
- **data-disabled**:
  When the input is disabled. Based on `isDisabled` prop.

<Spacer y={4} />{" "}

## Accessibility

- Built with a native `<input>` element.
- Visual and ARIA labeling support.
- Change, clipboard, composition, selection, and input event support.
- Required and invalid states exposed to assistive technology via ARIA.
- Support for description and error message help text linked to the input via ARIA.

<Spacer y={4} />{" "}

## API

### Input Props

| Attribute        | Type                                                                                                                                                                   | Description                                                                                                           | Default   |
| ---------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------- |
| children         | `ReactNode`                                                                                                                                                            | The content of the input.                                                                                             | -         |
| variant          | `flat` \| `bordered` \| `faded` \| `underlined`                                                                                                                        | The variant of the input.                                                                                             | `flat`    |
| color            | `default` \| `primary` \| `secondary` \| `success` \| `warning` \| `danger`                                                                                            | The color of the input.                                                                                               | `default` |
| size             | `sm` \| `md` \| `lg`                                                                                                                                                   | The size of the input.                                                                                                | `md`      |
| radius           | `none` \| `sm` \| `md` \| `lg` \| `full`                                                                                                                               | The radius of the input.                                                                                              | -         |
| label            | `ReactNode`                                                                                                                                                            | The content to display as the label.                                                                                  | -         |
| value            | `string`                                                                                                                                                               | The current value of the input (controlled).                                                                          | -         |
| defaultValue     | `string`                                                                                                                                                               | The default value of the input (uncontrolled).                                                                        | -         |
| placeholder      | `string`                                                                                                                                                               | The placeholder of the input.                                                                                         | -         |
| description      | `ReactNode`                                                                                                                                                            | A description for the input. Provides a hint such as specific requirements for what to choose.                        | -         |
| errorMessage     | `ReactNode` \| `((v: ValidationResult) => ReactNode)`                                                                                                                  | An error message for the input.                                                                                       | -         |
| validate         | `(value: string) => ValidationError ｜ true ｜ null ｜ undefined`                                                                                                       | Validate input values when committing (e.g. on blur), and return error messages for invalid values.                   | -         |
| startContent     | `ReactNode`                                                                                                                                                            | Element to be rendered in the left side of the input.                                                                 | -         |
| endContent       | `ReactNode`                                                                                                                                                            | Element to be rendered in the right side of the input.                                                                | -         |
| labelPlacement   | `inside` \| `outside` \| `outside-left`                                                                                                                                | The position of the label.                                                                                            | `inside`  |
| fullWidth        | `boolean`                                                                                                                                                              | Whether the input should take up the width of its parent.                                                             | `true`    |
| isClearable      | `boolean`                                                                                                                                                              | Whether the input should have a clear button.                                                                         | `false`   |
| isRequired       | `boolean`                                                                                                                                                              | Whether user input is required on the input before form submission.                                                   | `false`   |
| isReadOnly       | `boolean`                                                                                                                                                              | Whether the input can be selected but not changed by the user.                                                        |           |
| isDisabled       | `boolean`                                                                                                                                                              | Whether the input is disabled.                                                                                        | `false`   |
| isInvalid        | `boolean`                                                                                                                                                              | Whether the input is invalid.                                                                                         | `false`   |
| baseRef          | `RefObject<HTMLDivElement>`                                                                                                                                            | The ref to the base element.                                                                                          | -         |
| validationState  | `valid` \| `invalid`                                                                                                                                                   | Whether the input should display its "valid" or "invalid" visual styling. (**Deprecated**) use **isInvalid** instead. | -         |
| disableAnimation | `boolean`                                                                                                                                                              | Whether the input should be animated.                                                                                 | `false`   |
| classNames       | `Record<"base"｜ "label"｜ "inputWrapper"｜ "innerWrapper"｜ "mainWrapper" ｜ "input" ｜ "clearButton" ｜ "helperWrapper" ｜ "description" ｜ "errorMessage", string>`    | Allows to set custom class names for the Input slots.                                                              | -         |

### Input Events

| Attribute     | Type                                  | Description                                                                                                                         |
| ------------- | ------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| onChange      | `React.ChangeEvent<HTMLInputElement>` | Handler that is called when the element's value changes. You can pull out the new value by accessing `event.target.value` (string). |
| onValueChange | `(value: string) => void`             | Handler that is called when the element's value changes.                                                                            |
| onClear       | `() => void`                          | Handler that is called when the clear button is clicked.                                                                            |
