apps/docs/content/docs/components/link.mdx, before:

---
title: 'Link'
description: 'Links allow users to click their way from page to page. This component is styled to resemble a hyperlink and semantically renders an <a>'
url: https://nextui.org/docs/components/link
---

# Link

Links allow users to click their way from page to page. This component is styled to resemble a hyperlink and semantically renders an `<a>`

```jsx
import { Link } from '@nextui-org/react';
```

<CarbonAd />

<Spacer y={2} />

<Playground
  title="Default"
  desc="You can use it to navigate between pages."
  files={linkContent.default_link}
/>

<Playground
  title="Colors"
  desc="You can use the `color` property to change `Link` color."
  files={linkContent.color}
/>

<Playground
  title="Variants"
  desc="You can choose between different styles of links."
  files={linkContent.variation}
/>

<Playground
  title="Block"
  desc="You can use the `block` property to display a separate block."
  files={linkContent.block}
/>

<Playground
  title="Icon"
  desc="Show an icon in the `Link` with the `icon` prop."
  files={linkContent.icon}
/>

<Playground
  title="Next.js Link"
  desc="If you are using [Next.js](https://nextjs.org) you can use `next/link` as a parent."
  code={`<NextLink href="/docs/components/button">
  <Link block color="secondary">
    Go to Button
  </Link>
</NextLink>
`}
/>

<Spacer y={3} />

### APIs

<Spacer y={2} />

#### Link Props

| Attribute     | Type                                            | Accepted values            | Description                             | Default |
| ------------- | ----------------------------------------------- | -------------------------- | --------------------------------------- | ------- |
| **color**     | `LinkColors` `boolean` `string`                 | [LinkColors](#link-colors) | Change link color                       | `false` |
| **href**      | `string`                                        | -                          | Link url                                | -       |
| **icon**      | `boolean`                                       | `true/false`               | Show link icon                          | `false` |
| **underline** | `boolean`                                       | `true/false`               | Display underline                       | `false` |
| **block**     | `boolean`                                       | `true/false`               | Display as a separate block             | `false` |
| **ref**       | <Code>Ref<HTMLAnchorElement &#124; null></Code> | -                          | forwardRef                              | -       |
| **css**       | `Stitches.CSS`                                  | -                          | Override Default CSS style              | -       |
| **as**        | `keyof JSX.IntrinsicElements`                   | -                          | Changes which tag component outputs     | `a`     |
| ...           | `AnchorHTMLAttributes`                          | `'rel', 'target', ...`     | Native props                            | -       |

<Spacer y={2} />

### Link types

<Spacer y={1} />

#### Link Colors

```ts
type LinkColors =
  | 'text'
  | 'default'
  | 'primary'
  | 'secondary'
  | 'success'
  | 'warning'
  | 'error';
```

Commit message:

refactor(react-link): icon prop renamed to isExternal

apps/docs/content/docs/components/link.mdx, after:

---
title: "Link"
description: "Links allow users to click their way from page to page. This component is styled to resemble a hyperlink and semantically renders an <a>"
url: https://nextui.org/docs/components/link
---

# Link

Links allow users to click their way from page to page. This component is styled to resemble a hyperlink and semantically renders an `<a>`

```jsx
import { Link } from "@nextui-org/react";
```

<CarbonAd />

<Spacer y={2} />

<Playground
  title="Default"
  desc="You can use it to navigate between pages."
  files={linkContent.default_link}
/>

<Playground
  title="Colors"
  desc="You can use the `color` property to change `Link` color."
  files={linkContent.color}
/>

<Playground
  title="Variants"
  desc="You can choose between different styles of links."
  files={linkContent.variation}
/>

<Playground
  title="Block"
  desc="You can use the `block` property to display a separate block."
  files={linkContent.block}
/>

<Playground
  title="External Link"
  desc="Show an icon in the `Link` with the `isExternal` prop."
  files={linkContent.icon}
/>

<Playground
  title="Next.js Link"
  desc="If you are using [Next.js](https://nextjs.org) you can use `next/link` as a parent."
  code={`<NextLink href="/docs/components/button">
  <Link block color="secondary">
    Go to Button
  </Link>
</NextLink>
`}
/>

<Spacer y={3} />

### APIs

<Spacer y={2} />

#### Link Props

| Attribute                | Type                                            | Accepted values            | Description                         | Default |
| ------------------------ | ----------------------------------------------- | -------------------------- | ----------------------------------- | ------- |
| **color**                | `LinkColors` `boolean` `string`                 | [LinkColors](#link-colors) | Change link color                   | `false` |
| **href**                 | `string`                                        | -                          | Link url                            | -       |
| **isExternal** `updated` | `boolean`                                       | `true/false`               | Show link icon                      | `false` |
| **underline**            | `boolean`                                       | `true/false`               | Display underline                   | `false` |
| **block**                | `boolean`                                       | `true/false`               | Display as a separate block         | `false` |
| **ref**                  | <Code>Ref<HTMLAnchorElement &#124; null></Code> | -                          | forwardRef                          | -       |
| **css**                  | `Stitches.CSS`                                  | -                          | Override Default CSS style          | -       |
| **as**                   | `keyof JSX.IntrinsicElements`                   | -                          | Changes which tag component outputs | `a`     |
| ...                      | `AnchorHTMLAttributes`                          | `'rel', 'target', ...`     | Native props                        | -       |

<Spacer y={2} />

### Link types

<Spacer y={1} />

#### Link Colors

```ts
type LinkColors =
  | "text"
  | "default"
  | "primary"
  | "secondary"
  | "success"
  | "warning"
  | "error";
```
