apps/docs/content/docs/components/navbar.mdx, before:

---
title: "Navbar"
description: "A responsive navigation header positioned on top side of your page that includes support for branding, links, navigation, collapse and more."
---

import {navbarContent} from "@/content/components/navbar";

# Navbar

A responsive navigation header positioned on top side of your page that includes support for branding, links, navigation, collapse menu and more.

<ComponentLinks component="navbar" />

---

## Import

NextUI exports 7 navbar-related components:

- **Navbar**: The main component of navbar.
- **NavbarBrand**: The component for branding.
- **NavbarContent**: The component for wrapping navbar items.
- **NavbarItem**: The component for navbar item.
- **NavbarMenuToggle**: The component for toggling navbar menu.
- **NavbarMenu**: The component for wrapping navbar menu items.
- **NavbarMenuItem**: The component for navbar menu item.

<ImportTabs
  commands={{
    main: `import {
  Navbar, 
  NavbarBrand, 
  NavbarContent, 
  NavbarItem, 
  NavbarMenuToggle.
  NavbarMenu,
  NavbarMenuItem
} from "@nextui-org/react";`,
    individual: `import {
  Navbar, 
  NavbarBrand, 
  NavbarContent, 
  NavbarItem, 
  NavbarMenuToggle.
  NavbarMenu,
  NavbarMenuItem
} from "@nextui-org/navbar";`
  }}
/>

## Usage

<CodeDemo 
  asIframe
  title="Usage"
  previewHeight="500px"
  iframeSrc="/examples/navbar/usage"
  files={navbarContent.usage} 
/>


### Static

You can use the `position` prop to make the navbar static positioned (the default behavior is `sticky`).

<CodeDemo 
  asIframe
  title="Static"
  previewHeight="500px"
  iframeSrc="/examples/navbar/static"
  files={navbarContent.static}
/>

### Hide on scroll

It is possible to hide the navbar on scroll by using the `shouldHideOnScroll` prop.

<CodeDemo 
  asIframe
  title="Hide on scroll"
  previewHeight="500px"
  iframeSrc="/examples/navbar/hide-on-scroll"
  files={navbarContent.hideOnScroll}
/>

Commit message:

feat(docs): navbar docs fixed, popover and dropdown animations improved

apps/docs/content/docs/components/navbar.mdx, after:

---
title: "Navbar"
description: "A responsive navigation header positioned on top side of your page that includes support for branding, links, navigation, collapse and more."
---

import {navbarContent} from "@/content/components/navbar";

# Navbar

A responsive navigation header positioned on top side of your page that includes support for branding, links, navigation, collapse menu and more.

<ComponentLinks component="navbar" />

---

## Import

NextUI exports 7 navbar-related components:

- **Navbar**: The main component of navbar.
- **NavbarBrand**: The component for branding.
- **NavbarContent**: The component for wrapping navbar items.
- **NavbarItem**: The component for navbar item.
- **NavbarMenuToggle**: The component for toggling navbar menu.
- **NavbarMenu**: The component for wrapping navbar menu items.
- **NavbarMenuItem**: The component for navbar menu item.

<ImportTabs
  commands={{
    main: `import {
  Navbar, 
  NavbarBrand, 
  NavbarContent, 
  NavbarItem, 
  NavbarMenuToggle.
  NavbarMenu,
  NavbarMenuItem
} from "@nextui-org/react";`,
    individual: `import {
  Navbar, 
  NavbarBrand, 
  NavbarContent, 
  NavbarItem, 
  NavbarMenuToggle.
  NavbarMenu,
  NavbarMenuItem
} from "@nextui-org/navbar";`
  }}
/>

## Usage

<CodeDemo 
  asIframe
  title="Usage"
  previewHeight="500px"
  iframeSrc="/examples/navbar/usage"
  files={navbarContent.usage} 
/>


### Static

You can use the `position` prop to make the navbar static positioned (the default behavior is `sticky`).

<CodeDemo 
  asIframe
  title="Static"
  previewHeight="500px"
  iframeSrc="/examples/navbar/static"
  files={navbarContent.staticPosition}
/>

### Hide on scroll

It is possible to hide the navbar on scroll by using the `shouldHideOnScroll` prop.

<CodeDemo 
  asIframe
  title="Hide on scroll"
  previewHeight="500px"
  iframeSrc="/examples/navbar/hide-on-scroll"
  files={navbarContent.hideOnScroll}
/>

### With Menu

You can use the `NavbarMenuToggle` and `NavbarMenu` components to display a togglable menu.

<CodeDemo 
  asIframe
  title="With Menu"
  iframeInitialWidth={420}
  previewHeight="600px"
  iframeSrc="/examples/navbar/with-menu"
  files={navbarContent.withMenu}
/>

### With Dropdown Menu

It is possible to use the [Dropdown](/docs/components/dropdown) component to display a dropdown menu as navbar item.


<CodeDemo 
  asIframe
  title="With Dropdown Menu"
  previewHeight="600px"
  iframeSrc="/examples/navbar/with-dropdown-menu"
  files={navbarContent.withMenu}
/>
