apps/docs/content/docs/components/radio.mdx, before:

---
title: 'Radio'
description: 'Radios are used when only one choice may be selected in a series of options.'
url: https://nextui.org/docs/components/radio
---

# Radio

Radios allow users to select a single option from a list of mutually exclusive options. All possible options are exposed up front for users to compare. Radio implementation is based on <a href="https://react-spectrum.adobe.com/react-aria/useRadioGroup.html" rel="noreferrer" target="_blank">@react-aria/radio</a>

```jsx
import { Radio } from '@nextui-org/react';
```

<CarbonAd />

<Spacer y={2} />

#### Anatomy

- **Radio.Group**: Radio group component that holds all radios in a group and provides a common API for managing the group state.
- **Radio**: Radio component that represents a single option

<Spacer y={2} />

<Playground
  title="Default"
  desc="`Radio.Group` accepts multiple `Radio` elements as children. Each `Radio` represents an item that can only be checked singularly, labeled by its children."
  files={radioContent.default_radio}
/>

> **Note**: Note: A Radio cannot be used outside of a Radio.Group.

<Playground
  title="Disabled"
  desc="Unusable and un-clickable `Radio`."
  files={radioContent.disabled}
/>

<Playground
  title="Sizes"
  desc="Change the size of the entire `Radio` including `padding`, `font-size` and `border` with the `size` property."
  files={radioContent.size}
/>

<Playground
  title="Colors"
  overflow="auto"
  desc="You can change the color with `color` prop."
  files={radioContent.color}
/>

<Playground
  title="Label Colors"
  overflow="auto"
  desc="You can change the `Radio` label color with `labelColor` prop."
  files={radioContent.labelColor}
/>

<Playground
  title="Squared"
  desc="You can change the full style to a squared `Radio` with the `isSquared` prop."
  files={radioContent.squared}
/>

<Playground
  title="Description"
  desc="You can add a description to the `Radio` with `description` prop."
  files={radioContent.description}
/>

<Playground
  title="Invalid"
  desc="Radios can display a validation state to communicate to the user if the current value is invalid. Implement your own validation logic in your app and pass `invalid` to the Radio.Group via the `validationState` prop."
  files={radioContent.invalid}
/>

<Playground
  title="Row"
  overflow="auto"
  desc="You can change the `Radio.Group` direction with `isRow` prop."
  files={radioContent.row}
/>

<Playground
  title="Disable Animation"
  desc="You can disable the animation of the entire `Radio` with the property `disableAnimation`."
  files={radioContent.disableAnimation}
/>

<Playground
  title="Controlled vs Uncontrolled"
  desc="An initial, **uncontrolled** value can be provided to the `Radio.Group` using the defaultValue prop. Alternatively, a **controlled** value can be provided using the value prop."
  files={radioContent.controlledVsUncontrolled}
/>

> Note: See React's documentation on [uncontrolled components](https://reactjs.org/docs/uncontrolled-components.html) for more info.

<Playground
  title="Events"
  desc="`Radio.Group` accepts an `onChange` prop, which is triggered when a user checks an item from the list. The example below uses `onChange` to log how the user is interacting with the component."
  files={radioContent.events}
/>

> Accessibility: If a visible label isn't specified for a `Radio.Group`, an aria-label must be provided for accessibility. If the field is labeled by a separate element, an aria-labelledby prop must be provided using the id of the labeling element instead. `Radio` elements within a group should always have a visible label.

<Spacer y={3} />

### Keyboard Interactions

| Key                   | Description                                                 |
| --------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------- |
| <kbd>ArrowDown</kbd>  | When focus is on an item, moves focus to the next item.     |
| <kbd>ArrowUp</kbd>    | When focus is on an item, moves focus to the previous item. |
| <kbd>ArrowLeft</kbd>  | When focus is on an item, moves focus to the previous item. |
| <kbd>ArrowRight</kbd> | When focus is on an item, moves focus to the next item.     |

<Spacer y={3} />

### APIs

<Spacer y={2} />

#### Radio.Group Props

| Attribute           | Type                          | Description                                                                                                                                                      | Default    |
| ------------------- | ----------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------- |
| **children\***      | `ReactNode[]`                 | The content of the radio group. It must be a list of radio items.                                                                                                | -          |
| **label**           | `ReactNode`                   | The content to display as the label.                                                                                                                             | -          |
| **value**           | `string`                      | The current value (controlled).                                                                                                                                  | -          |
| **defaultValue**    | `string`                      | The default value (uncontrolled).                                                                                                                                | -          |
| **color**           | `SimpleColors` `string`       | Change radio group color                                                                                                                                         | `primary`  |
| **labelColor**      | `SimpleColors` `string`       | Change radio group label color                                                                                                                                   | `default`  |
| **size**            | `NormalSizes`                 | Size of all radios in the group                                                                                                                                  | `md`       |
| **name**            | `string`                      | The name of the RadioGroup, used when submitting an HTML form. See [MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/input#name_and_radio_buttons) | -          |
| **isRow**           | `boolean`                     | Change the radio group direction                                                                                                                                 | `false`    |
| **orientation**     | `horizontal` `vertical`       | The axis the radio group items should align with.                                                                                                                | `vertical` |
| **validationState** | `valid` `invalid`             | Whether the input should display its "valid" or "invalid" visual styling.                                                                                        | -          |
| **isDisabled**      | `boolean`                     | Whether the radio group items are disabled.                                                                                                                      | `false`    |
| **isReadOnly**      | `boolean`                     | Whether the input can be selected but not changed by the user.                                                                                                   | `false`    |
| **isRequired**      | `boolean`                     | Whether user input is required on the input before form submission. Often paired with the necessityIndicator prop to add a visual indicator to the input.        | `false`    |
| **css**             | `Stitches.CSS`                | Override Default CSS style                                                                                                                                       | -          |
| **as**              | `keyof JSX.IntrinsicElements` | Changes which tag component outputs                                                                                                                              | `div`      |

<Spacer y={1} />

#### Radio.Group Events

| Attribute    | Type                 | Description                                    | Default |
| ------------ | -------------------- | ---------------------------------------------- | ------- |
| **onChange** | `(value: T) => void` | Handler that is called when the value changes. | -       |

<Spacer y={1} />

#### Radio.Group Accessibility Props

| Attribute             | Type     | Description                                                                                                        | Default |
| --------------------- | -------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | ------- |
| **id**                | `string` | The element's unique identifier. See [MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Global_attributes/id) | -       |
| **aria-label**        | `string` | Defines a string value that labels the current element                                                             | -       |
| **aria-labelledby**   | `string` | Identifies the element (or elements) that labels the current element                                               | -       |
| **aria-describedby**  | `string` | Identifies the element (or elements) that describes the object.                                                    | -       |
| **aria-details**      | `string` | Identifies the element (or elements) that provide a detailed, extended description for the object.                 | -       |
| **aria-errormessage** | `string` | Identifies the element that provides an error message for the object.                                              | -       |

<Spacer y={2} />

---

<Spacer y={2} />

#### Radio Props

| Attribute            | Type                          | Description                                                                                                                                              | Default   |
| -------------------- | ----------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------- |
| **value\***          | `string`                      | The value of the radio button, used when submitting an HTML form. See [MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/input/radio#Value) | -         |
| **children**         | `ReactNode`                   | The label for the Radio. Accepts any renderable node.                                                                                                    | -         |
| **color**            | `SimpleColors` `string`       | The radio color                                                                                                                                          | `primary` |
| **labelColor**       | `SimpleColors` `string`       | The radio label color                                                                                                                                    | `default` |
| **description**      | `string` `ReactNode`          | The radio description text                                                                                                                               | -         |
| **size**             | `NormalSizes`                 | The radio size                                                                                                                                           | `md`      |
| **isSquared**        | `boolean`                     | Whether the radio button has squared corners                                                                                                             | `false`   |
| **isDisabled**       | `boolean`                     | Whether the radio button is disabled or not. Shows that a selection exists, but is not available in that circumstance.                                   | `false`   |
| **disableAnimation** | `boolean`                     | Whether the checkbox has animations                                                                                                                      | `false`   |
| **autoFocus**        | `boolean`                     | Whether the element should receive focus on render.                                                                                                      | `false`   |
| **css**              | `Stitches.CSS`                | Override Default CSS style                                                                                                                               | -         |
| **as**               | `keyof JSX.IntrinsicElements` | Changes which tag component outputs                                                                                                                      | `label`   |

<Spacer y={1} />

#### Radio Events

| Attribute         | Type                                                                                                                                                                                                          | Description                                                     | Default |
| ----------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------- | ------- |
| **onFocus**       | <Code>(e: [FocusEvent](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/FocusEvent)) => any</Code>                                                                                                            | Handler that is called when the element receives focus.         | -       |
| **onBlur**        | <Code>(e: [FocusEvent](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/FocusEvent)) => any</Code>                                                                                                            | Handler that is called when the element loses focus.            | -       |
| **onFocusChange** | <Code>(isFocused: boolean) => void</Code>                                                                                                                                                                     | Handler that is called when the element's focus status changes. | -       |
| **onKeyDown**     | <Code>(e: [KeyboardEvent](https://react-spectrum.adobe.com/react-aria/useRadioGroup.html#/tmp/861dffb663a40fd12ec71559168ad29a/node_modules/@react-types/shared/src/events.d.ts:KeyboardEvent)) => any</Code> | Handler that is called when a key is pressed.                   | -       |
| **onKeyUp**       | <Code>(e: [KeyboardEvent](https://react-spectrum.adobe.com/react-aria/useRadioGroup.html#/tmp/861dffb663a40fd12ec71559168ad29a/node_modules/@react-types/shared/src/events.d.ts:KeyboardEvent)) => any</Code> | Handler that is called when a key is released.                  | -       |

<Spacer y={1} />

#### Radio Accessibility Props

| Attribute            | Type     | Description                                                                                                        | Default |
| -------------------- | -------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | ------- |
| **id**               | `string` | The element's unique identifier. See [MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Global_attributes/id) | -       |
| **aria-label**       | `string` | Defines a string value that labels the current element                                                             | -       |
| **aria-labelledby**  | `string` | Identifies the element (or elements) that labels the current element                                               | -       |
| **aria-describedby** | `string` | Identifies the element (or elements) that describes the object.                                                    | -       |
| **aria-details**     | `string` | Identifies the element (or elements) that provide a detailed, extended description for the object.                 | -       |

<Spacer y={2} />

---

<Spacer y={2} />

### Radio types

<Spacer y={1} />

#### Simple Colors

```ts
type SimpleColors =
  | 'default'
  | 'primary'
  | 'secondary'
  | 'success'
  | 'warning'
  | 'error';
```

#### Normal Sizes

```ts
type NormalSizes = 'xs' | 'sm' | 'md' | 'lg' | 'xl';
```

Commit message:

refactor(react-radio): isRow prop changed by orientation horizontal

apps/docs/content/docs/components/radio.mdx, after:

---
title: 'Radio'
description: 'Radios are used when only one choice may be selected in a series of options.'
url: https://nextui.org/docs/components/radio
---

# Radio

Radios allow users to select a single option from a list of mutually exclusive options. All possible options are exposed up front for users to compare. Radio implementation is based on <a href="https://react-spectrum.adobe.com/react-aria/useRadioGroup.html" rel="noreferrer" target="_blank">@react-aria/radio</a>

```jsx
import { Radio } from '@nextui-org/react';
```

<CarbonAd />

<Spacer y={2} />

#### Anatomy

- **Radio.Group**: Radio group component that holds all radios in a group and provides a common API for managing the group state.
- **Radio**: Radio component that represents a single option

<Spacer y={2} />

<Playground
  title="Default"
  desc="`Radio.Group` accepts multiple `Radio` elements as children. Each `Radio` represents an item that can only be checked singularly, labeled by its children."
  files={radioContent.default_radio}
/>

> **Note**: Note: A Radio cannot be used outside of a Radio.Group.

<Playground
  title="Disabled"
  desc="Unusable and un-clickable `Radio`."
  files={radioContent.disabled}
/>

<Playground
  title="Sizes"
  desc="Change the size of the entire `Radio` including `padding`, `font-size` and `border` with the `size` property."
  files={radioContent.size}
/>

<Playground
  title="Colors"
  overflow="auto"
  desc="You can change the color with `color` prop."
  files={radioContent.color}
/>

<Playground
  title="Label Colors"
  overflow="auto"
  desc="You can change the `Radio` label color with `labelColor` prop."
  files={radioContent.labelColor}
/>

<Playground
  title="Squared"
  desc="You can change the full style to a squared `Radio` with the `isSquared` prop."
  files={radioContent.squared}
/>

<Playground
  title="Description"
  desc="You can add a description to the `Radio` with `description` prop."
  files={radioContent.description}
/>

<Playground
  title="Invalid"
  desc="Radios can display a validation state to communicate to the user if the current value is invalid. Implement your own validation logic in your app and pass `invalid` to the Radio.Group via the `validationState` prop."
  files={radioContent.invalid}
/>

<Playground
  title="Row"
  overflow="auto"
  desc="Radio groups are vertically oriented by default. The `orientation` prop can be used to change the orientation to horizontal."
  files={radioContent.row}
/>

<Playground
  title="Disable Animation"
  desc="You can disable the animation of the entire `Radio` with the property `disableAnimation`."
  files={radioContent.disableAnimation}
/>

<Playground
  title="Controlled vs Uncontrolled"
  desc="An initial, **uncontrolled** value can be provided to the `Radio.Group` using the defaultValue prop. Alternatively, a **controlled** value can be provided using the value prop."
  files={radioContent.controlledVsUncontrolled}
/>

> Note: See React's documentation on [uncontrolled components](https://reactjs.org/docs/uncontrolled-components.html) for more info.

<Playground
  title="Events"
  desc="`Radio.Group` accepts an `onChange` prop, which is triggered when a user checks an item from the list. The example below uses `onChange` to log how the user is interacting with the component."
  files={radioContent.events}
/>

> Accessibility: If a visible label isn't specified for a `Radio.Group`, an aria-label must be provided for accessibility. If the field is labeled by a separate element, an aria-labelledby prop must be provided using the id of the labeling element instead. `Radio` elements within a group should always have a visible label.

<Spacer y={3} />

### Keyboard Interactions

| Key                                        | Description                                                 |
| ------------------------------------------ | ----------------------------------------------------------- |
| <kbd>ArrowDown</kbd> <kbd>ArrowRight</kbd> | When focus is on an item, moves focus to the next item.     |
| <kbd>ArrowUp</kbd> <kbd>ArrowLeft</kbd>    | When focus is on an item, moves focus to the previous item. |

<Spacer y={3} />

### APIs

<Spacer y={2} />

#### Radio.Group Props

| Attribute           | Type                          | Description                                                                                                                                                      | Default    |
| ------------------- | ----------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------- |
| **children\***      | `ReactNode[]`                 | The content of the radio group. It must be a list of radio items.                                                                                                | -          |
| **label**           | `ReactNode`                   | The content to display as the label.                                                                                                                             | -          |
| **value**           | `string`                      | The current value (controlled).                                                                                                                                  | -          |
| **defaultValue**    | `string`                      | The default value (uncontrolled).                                                                                                                                | -          |
| **color**           | `SimpleColors` `string`       | Change radio group color                                                                                                                                         | `primary`  |
| **labelColor**      | `SimpleColors` `string`       | Change radio group label color                                                                                                                                   | `default`  |
| **size**            | `NormalSizes`                 | Size of all radios in the group                                                                                                                                  | `md`       |
| **name**            | `string`                      | The name of the RadioGroup, used when submitting an HTML form. See [MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/input#name_and_radio_buttons) | -          |
| **orientation**     | `horizontal` `vertical`       | The axis the radio group items should align with.                                                                                                                | `vertical` |
| **validationState** | `valid` `invalid`             | Whether the input should display its "valid" or "invalid" visual styling.                                                                                        | -          |
| **isDisabled**      | `boolean`                     | Whether the radio group items are disabled.                                                                                                                      | `false`    |
| **isReadOnly**      | `boolean`                     | Whether the input can be selected but not changed by the user.                                                                                                   | `false`    |
| **isRequired**      | `boolean`                     | Whether user input is required on the input before form submission. Often paired with the necessityIndicator prop to add a visual indicator to the input.        | `false`    |
| **css**             | `Stitches.CSS`                | Override Default CSS style                                                                                                                                       | -          |
| **as**              | `keyof JSX.IntrinsicElements` | Changes which tag component outputs                                                                                                                              | `div`      |

<Spacer y={1} />

#### Radio.Group Events

| Attribute    | Type                 | Description                                    | Default |
| ------------ | -------------------- | ---------------------------------------------- | ------- |
| **onChange** | `(value: T) => void` | Handler that is called when the value changes. | -       |

<Spacer y={1} />

#### Radio.Group Accessibility Props

| Attribute             | Type     | Description                                                                                                        | Default |
| --------------------- | -------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | ------- |
| **id**                | `string` | The element's unique identifier. See [MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Global_attributes/id) | -       |
| **aria-label**        | `string` | Defines a string value that labels the current element                                                             | -       |
| **aria-labelledby**   | `string` | Identifies the element (or elements) that labels the current element                                               | -       |
| **aria-describedby**  | `string` | Identifies the element (or elements) that describes the object.                                                    | -       |
| **aria-details**      | `string` | Identifies the element (or elements) that provide a detailed, extended description for the object.                 | -       |
| **aria-errormessage** | `string` | Identifies the element that provides an error message for the object.                                              | -       |

<Spacer y={2} />

---

<Spacer y={2} />

#### Radio Props

| Attribute            | Type                          | Description                                                                                                                                              | Default   |
| -------------------- | ----------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------- |
| **value\***          | `string`                      | The value of the radio button, used when submitting an HTML form. See [MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/input/radio#Value) | -         |
| **children**         | `ReactNode`                   | The label for the Radio. Accepts any renderable node.                                                                                                    | -         |
| **color**            | `SimpleColors` `string`       | The radio color                                                                                                                                          | `primary` |
| **labelColor**       | `SimpleColors` `string`       | The radio label color                                                                                                                                    | `default` |
| **description**      | `string` `ReactNode`          | The radio description text                                                                                                                               | -         |
| **size**             | `NormalSizes`                 | The radio size                                                                                                                                           | `md`      |
| **isSquared**        | `boolean`                     | Whether the radio button has squared corners                                                                                                             | `false`   |
| **isDisabled**       | `boolean`                     | Whether the radio button is disabled or not. Shows that a selection exists, but is not available in that circumstance.                                   | `false`   |
| **disableAnimation** | `boolean`                     | Whether the checkbox has animations                                                                                                                      | `false`   |
| **autoFocus**        | `boolean`                     | Whether the element should receive focus on render.                                                                                                      | `false`   |
| **css**              | `Stitches.CSS`                | Override Default CSS style                                                                                                                               | -         |
| **as**               | `keyof JSX.IntrinsicElements` | Changes which tag component outputs                                                                                                                      | `label`   |

<Spacer y={1} />

#### Radio Events

| Attribute         | Type                                                                                                                                                                                                          | Description                                                     | Default |
| ----------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------- | ------- |
| **onFocus**       | <Code>(e: [FocusEvent](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/FocusEvent)) => any</Code>                                                                                                            | Handler that is called when the element receives focus.         | -       |
| **onBlur**        | <Code>(e: [FocusEvent](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/FocusEvent)) => any</Code>                                                                                                            | Handler that is called when the element loses focus.            | -       |
| **onFocusChange** | <Code>(isFocused: boolean) => void</Code>                                                                                                                                                                     | Handler that is called when the element's focus status changes. | -       |
| **onKeyDown**     | <Code>(e: [KeyboardEvent](https://react-spectrum.adobe.com/react-aria/useRadioGroup.html#/tmp/861dffb663a40fd12ec71559168ad29a/node_modules/@react-types/shared/src/events.d.ts:KeyboardEvent)) => any</Code> | Handler that is called when a key is pressed.                   | -       |
| **onKeyUp**       | <Code>(e: [KeyboardEvent](https://react-spectrum.adobe.com/react-aria/useRadioGroup.html#/tmp/861dffb663a40fd12ec71559168ad29a/node_modules/@react-types/shared/src/events.d.ts:KeyboardEvent)) => any</Code> | Handler that is called when a key is released.                  | -       |

<Spacer y={1} />

#### Radio Accessibility Props

| Attribute            | Type     | Description                                                                                                        | Default |
| -------------------- | -------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | ------- |
| **id**               | `string` | The element's unique identifier. See [MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Global_attributes/id) | -       |
| **aria-label**       | `string` | Defines a string value that labels the current element                                                             | -       |
| **aria-labelledby**  | `string` | Identifies the element (or elements) that labels the current element                                               | -       |
| **aria-describedby** | `string` | Identifies the element (or elements) that describes the object.                                                    | -       |
| **aria-details**     | `string` | Identifies the element (or elements) that provide a detailed, extended description for the object.                 | -       |

<Spacer y={2} />

---

<Spacer y={2} />

### Radio types

<Spacer y={1} />

#### Simple Colors

```ts
type SimpleColors =
  | 'default'
  | 'primary'
  | 'secondary'
  | 'success'
  | 'warning'
  | 'error';
```

#### Normal Sizes

```ts
type NormalSizes = 'xs' | 'sm' | 'md' | 'lg' | 'xl';
```
