apps/docs/content/docs/components/radio-group.mdx, before:

---
title: "Radio"
description: "Radio Group allow users to select a single option from a list of mutually exclusive options"
---

import {radioGroupContent} from "@/content/components/radio-group";

# Radio group

Radio Group allow users to select a single option from a list of mutually exclusive options.

<ComponentLinks component="radio" reactAriaHook="useRadioGroup" />

---

<CarbonAd/>

## Import

<ImportTabs
  commands={{
    main: 'import {RadioGroup, Radio} from "@nextui-org/react";',
    individual: 'import {RadioGroup, Radio} from "@nextui-org/radio";',
  }}
/>

## Usage

<CodeDemo title="Usage" files={radioGroupContent.usage} />

### Disabled

<CodeDemo title="Disabled" files={radioGroupContent.disabled} />

### Default Value

<CodeDemo title="Default Value" files={radioGroupContent.defaultValue} />

### With Description

<CodeDemo title="With Description" files={radioGroupContent.withDescription} />

### Horizontal

<CodeDemo title="Horizontal" files={radioGroupContent.horizontal} />

### Controlled

You can use the `value` and `onValueChange` properties to control the radio input value.

<CodeDemo title="Controlled" files={radioGroupContent.controlled} />

> **Note**: NextUI `Radio` also supports native events like `onChange`, useful for form libraries
> such as [Formik](https://formik.org/) and [React Hook Form](https://react-hook-form.com/).

## Slots

- RadioGroup Slots

  - **base**: Radio group root wrapper, it wraps the label and the wrapper.
  - **wrapper**: Radio group wrapper, it wraps all Radios.
  - **label**: Radio group label, it is placed before the wrapper.
  - **description**: Description slot for the radio group.
  - **errorMessage**: Error message slot for the radio group.

- Radio Slots
  - **base**: Radio root wrapper, it wraps all elements.
  - **wrapper**: Radio wrapper, it wraps the control element.
  - **labelWrapper**: Label and description wrapper.
  - **label**: Label slot for the radio.
  - **control**: Control element, it is the circle element.
  - **description**: Description slot for the radio.

### Custom Styles

You can customize the `RadioGroup` and `Radio` component by passing custom Tailwind CSS classes to the component slots.

<CodeDemo title="Custom Styles" files={radioGroupContent.customStyles} />

### Custom Implementation

In case you need to customize the radio group even further, you can use the `useRadio` hook to create your own implementation.

<CodeDemo title="Custom Implementation" files={radioGroupContent.customImpl} />

<Spacer y={4} />{" "}

## Data Attributes

- RadioGroup has the following attributes on the `base` element:

  - **data-orientation**:
    The orientation of the radio group. Based on `orientation` prop.

- Radio has the following attributes on the `base` element:

  - **data-selected**:
    When the radio is checked. Based on `isSelected` prop.
  - **data-pressed**:
    When the radio is pressed. Based on [usePress](https://react-spectrum.adobe.com/react-aria/usePress.html).
  - **data-invalid**:
    When the radio is invalid. Based on `validationState` prop.
  - **data-readonly**:
    When the radio is readonly. Based on `isReadOnly` prop.
  - **data-hover-unselected**:
    When the radio is being hovered and unchecked. Based on [useHover](https://react-spectrum.adobe.com/react-aria/useHover.html).
  - **data-hover**:
    When the radio is being hovered. Based on [useHover](https://react-spectrum.adobe.com/react-aria/useHover.html).
  - **data-focus**:
    When the radio is being focused. Based on [useFocusRing](https://react-spectrum.adobe.com/react-aria/useFocusRing.html).
  - **data-focus-visible**:
    When the radio is being focused with the keyboard. Based on [useFocusRing](https://react-spectrum.adobe.com/react-aria/useFocusRing.html).
  - **data-disabled**:
    When the radio is disabled. Based on `isDisabled` prop.

<Spacer y={4} />{" "}

## Accessibility

- Radio groups are exposed to assistive technology via ARIA.
- Each radio is built with a native HTML `<input>` element, which can be optionally visually hidden to allow custom styling.
- Full support for browser features like form autofill.
- Keyboard event support for arrows keys.
- Keyboard focus management and cross browser normalization.
- Group and radio labeling support for assistive technology.

<Spacer y={4} />{" "}

## API

### RadioGroup Props

| Attribute        | Type                                                                        | Description                                                                                                                                                       | Default    |
| ---------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------- |
| children         | `ReactNode` \| `ReactNode[]`                                                | The list of radio elements.                                                                                                                                       | -          |
| label            | `ReactNode`                                                                 | The label of the radio group.                                                                                                                                     | -          |
| size             | `sm` \| `md` \| `lg`                                                        | The size of the radios.                                                                                                                                           | `md`       |
| color            | `default` \| `primary` \| `secondary` \| `success` \| `warning` \| `danger` | The color of the radios.                                                                                                                                          | `primary`  |
| orientation      | `horizontal` \| `vertical`                                                  | The orientation of the radio group.                                                                                                                               | `vertical` |
| name             | `string`                                                                    | The name of the RadioGroup, used when submitting an HTML form. See [MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/input#name_and_radio_buttons). | -          |
| value            | `string[]`                                                                  | The current selected value. (controlled).                                                                                                                         | -          |
| defaultValue     | `string[]`                                                                  | The default selected value. (uncontrolled).                                                                                                                       | -          |
| validationState  | `valid` \| `invalid`                                                        | Whether the inputs should display its "valid" or "invalid" visual styling.                                                                                        | `false`    |
| description      | `ReactNode`                                                                 | Radio group description .                                                                                                                                         | -          |
| errorMessage     | `ReactNode`                                                                 | Radio group error message.                                                                                                                                        | -          |
| isDisabled       | `boolean`                                                                   | Whether the radio group is disabled.                                                                                                                              | `false`    |
| isRequired       | `boolean`                                                                   | Whether user checkboxes are required on the input before form submission.                                                                                         | `false`    |
| isReadOnly       | `boolean`                                                                   | Whether the checkboxes can be selected but not changed by the user.                                                                                               | -          |
| disableAnimation | `boolean`                                                                   | Whether the animation should be disabled.                                                                                                                         | `false`    |
| classNames       | `Record<"base"｜ "wrapper"｜ "label", string>`                              | Allows to set custom class names for the radio group slots.                                                                                                       | -          |

### RadioGroup Events

| Attribute     | Type                                  | Description                                                                                                                         |
| ------------- | ------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| onChange      | `React.ChangeEvent<HTMLInputElement>` | Handler that is called when the element's value changes. You can pull out the new value by accessing `event.target.value` (string). |
| onValueChange | `((value: string) => void)`           | Handler that is called when the value changes.                                                                                      |

### Radio Props

| Attribute        | Type                                                                                           | Description                                                                                    | Default   |
| ---------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------- |
| children         | `ReactNode`                                                                                    | The label of the radio.                                                                        | -         |
| label            | `ReactNode`                                                                                    | The label of the radio.                                                                        | -         |
| size             | `sm` \| `md` \| `lg`                                                                           | The size of the radio.                                                                         | `md`      |
| color            | `default` \| `primary` \| `secondary` \| `success` \| `warning` \| `danger`                    | The color of the radio.                                                                        | `primary` |
| description      | `ReactNode`                                                                                    | A description for the field. Provides a hint such as specific requirements for what to choose. | -         |
| isDisabled       | `boolean`                                                                                      | Whether the radio is disabled.                                                                 | `false`   |
| isRequired       | `boolean`                                                                                      | Whether user checkboxes are required on the input before form submission.                      | `false`   |
| isReadOnly       | `boolean`                                                                                      | Whether the checkboxes can be selected but not changed by the user.                            | -         |
| isInvalid        | `boolean`                                                                                      | Whether the radio is invalid. This is based on the radio groupo `validationState` prop.        | `false`   |
| disableAnimation | `boolean`                                                                                      | Whether the animation should be disabled.                                                      | `false`   |
| classNames       | `Record<"base"｜ "wrapper"｜ "labelWrapper" ｜ "label" ｜ "control" ｜ "description", string>` | Allows to set custom class names for the radio slots.                                          | -         |

Commit message:

fix(packages): validation state deprecated, isInvalid prop adjusted (#1631)

apps/docs/content/docs/components/radio-group.mdx, after:

---
title: "Radio"
description: "Radio Group allow users to select a single option from a list of mutually exclusive options"
---

import {radioGroupContent} from "@/content/components/radio-group";

# Radio group

Radio Group allow users to select a single option from a list of mutually exclusive options.

<ComponentLinks component="radio" reactAriaHook="useRadioGroup" />

---

<CarbonAd />

## Import

<ImportTabs
  commands={{
    main: 'import {RadioGroup, Radio} from "@nextui-org/react";',
    individual: 'import {RadioGroup, Radio} from "@nextui-org/radio";',
  }}
/>

## Usage

<CodeDemo title="Usage" files={radioGroupContent.usage} />

### Disabled

<CodeDemo title="Disabled" files={radioGroupContent.disabled} />

### Default Value

<CodeDemo title="Default Value" files={radioGroupContent.defaultValue} />

### With Description

<CodeDemo title="With Description" files={radioGroupContent.withDescription} />

### Horizontal

<CodeDemo title="Horizontal" files={radioGroupContent.horizontal} />

### Controlled

You can use the `value` and `onValueChange` properties to control the radio input value.

<CodeDemo title="Controlled" files={radioGroupContent.controlled} />

> **Note**: NextUI `Radio` also supports native events like `onChange`, useful for form libraries
> such as [Formik](https://formik.org/) and [React Hook Form](https://react-hook-form.com/).

### Invalid

<CodeDemo title="Invalid" files={radioGroupContent.invalid} />

## Slots

- RadioGroup Slots

  - **base**: Radio group root wrapper, it wraps the label and the wrapper.
  - **wrapper**: Radio group wrapper, it wraps all Radios.
  - **label**: Radio group label, it is placed before the wrapper.
  - **description**: Description slot for the radio group.
  - **errorMessage**: Error message slot for the radio group.

- Radio Slots
  - **base**: Radio root wrapper, it wraps all elements.
  - **wrapper**: Radio wrapper, it wraps the control element.
  - **labelWrapper**: Label and description wrapper.
  - **label**: Label slot for the radio.
  - **control**: Control element, it is the circle element.
  - **description**: Description slot for the radio.

### Custom Styles

You can customize the `RadioGroup` and `Radio` component by passing custom Tailwind CSS classes to the component slots.

<CodeDemo title="Custom Styles" files={radioGroupContent.customStyles} />

### Custom Implementation

In case you need to customize the radio group even further, you can use the `useRadio` hook to create your own implementation.

<CodeDemo title="Custom Implementation" files={radioGroupContent.customImpl} />

<Spacer y={4} />{" "}

## Data Attributes

- RadioGroup has the following attributes on the `base` element:

  - **data-orientation**:
    The orientation of the radio group. Based on `orientation` prop.

- Radio has the following attributes on the `base` element:

  - **data-selected**:
    When the radio is checked. Based on `isSelected` prop.
  - **data-pressed**:
    When the radio is pressed. Based on [usePress](https://react-spectrum.adobe.com/react-aria/usePress.html).
  - **data-invalid**:
    When the radio is invalid. Based on `validationState` prop.
  - **data-readonly**:
    When the radio is readonly. Based on `isReadOnly` prop.
  - **data-hover-unselected**:
    When the radio is being hovered and unchecked. Based on [useHover](https://react-spectrum.adobe.com/react-aria/useHover.html).
  - **data-hover**:
    When the radio is being hovered. Based on [useHover](https://react-spectrum.adobe.com/react-aria/useHover.html).
  - **data-focus**:
    When the radio is being focused. Based on [useFocusRing](https://react-spectrum.adobe.com/react-aria/useFocusRing.html).
  - **data-focus-visible**:
    When the radio is being focused with the keyboard. Based on [useFocusRing](https://react-spectrum.adobe.com/react-aria/useFocusRing.html).
  - **data-disabled**:
    When the radio is disabled. Based on `isDisabled` prop.

<Spacer y={4} />{" "}

## Accessibility

- Radio groups are exposed to assistive technology via ARIA.
- Each radio is built with a native HTML `<input>` element, which can be optionally visually hidden to allow custom styling.
- Full support for browser features like form autofill.
- Keyboard event support for arrows keys.
- Keyboard focus management and cross browser normalization.
- Group and radio labeling support for assistive technology.

<Spacer y={4} />{" "}

## API

### RadioGroup Props

| Attribute        | Type                                                                        | Description                                                                                                                                                       | Default    |
| ---------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------- |
| children         | `ReactNode` \| `ReactNode[]`                                                | The list of radio elements.                                                                                                                                       | -          |
| label            | `ReactNode`                                                                 | The label of the radio group.                                                                                                                                     | -          |
| size             | `sm` \| `md` \| `lg`                                                        | The size of the radios.                                                                                                                                           | `md`       |
| color            | `default` \| `primary` \| `secondary` \| `success` \| `warning` \| `danger` | The color of the radios.                                                                                                                                          | `primary`  |
| orientation      | `horizontal` \| `vertical`                                                  | The orientation of the radio group.                                                                                                                               | `vertical` |
| name             | `string`                                                                    | The name of the RadioGroup, used when submitting an HTML form. See [MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/input#name_and_radio_buttons). | -          |
| value            | `string[]`                                                                  | The current selected value. (controlled).                                                                                                                         | -          |
| defaultValue     | `string[]`                                                                  | The default selected value. (uncontrolled).                                                                                                                       | -          |
| description      | `ReactNode`                                                                 | Radio group description .                                                                                                                                         | -          |
| errorMessage     | `ReactNode`                                                                 | Radio group error message.                                                                                                                                        | -          |
| isDisabled       | `boolean`                                                                   | Whether the radio group is disabled.                                                                                                                              | `false`    |
| isRequired       | `boolean`                                                                   | Whether user checkboxes are required on the input before form submission.                                                                                         | `false`    |
| isReadOnly       | `boolean`                                                                   | Whether the checkboxes can be selected but not changed by the user.                                                                                               | -          |
| isInvalid        | `boolean`                                                                   | Whether the radio group is invalid.                                                                                                                               | `false`    |
| validationState  | `valid` \| `invalid`                                                        | Whether the inputs should display its "valid" or "invalid" visual styling. (**Deprecated**) use **isInvalid** instead.                                            | `false`    |
| disableAnimation | `boolean`                                                                   | Whether the animation should be disabled.                                                                                                                         | `false`    |
| classNames       | `Record<"base"｜ "wrapper"｜ "label", string>`                              | Allows to set custom class names for the radio group slots.                                                                                                       | -          |

### RadioGroup Events

| Attribute     | Type                                  | Description                                                                                                                         |
| ------------- | ------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| onChange      | `React.ChangeEvent<HTMLInputElement>` | Handler that is called when the element's value changes. You can pull out the new value by accessing `event.target.value` (string). |
| onValueChange | `((value: string) => void)`           | Handler that is called when the value changes.                                                                                      |

### Radio Props

| Attribute        | Type                                                                                           | Description                                                                                    | Default   |
| ---------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------- |
| children         | `ReactNode`                                                                                    | The label of the radio.                                                                        | -         |
| label            | `ReactNode`                                                                                    | The label of the radio.                                                                        | -         |
| size             | `sm` \| `md` \| `lg`                                                                           | The size of the radio.                                                                         | `md`      |
| color            | `default` \| `primary` \| `secondary` \| `success` \| `warning` \| `danger`                    | The color of the radio.                                                                        | `primary` |
| description      | `ReactNode`                                                                                    | A description for the field. Provides a hint such as specific requirements for what to choose. | -         |
| isDisabled       | `boolean`                                                                                      | Whether the radio is disabled.                                                                 | `false`   |
| isRequired       | `boolean`                                                                                      | Whether user checkboxes are required on the input before form submission.                      | `false`   |
| isReadOnly       | `boolean`                                                                                      | Whether the checkboxes can be selected but not changed by the user.                            | -         |
| isInvalid        | `boolean`                                                                                      | Whether the radio is invalid. This is based on the radio groupo `validationState` prop.        | `false`   |
| disableAnimation | `boolean`                                                                                      | Whether the animation should be disabled.                                                      | `false`   |
| classNames       | `Record<"base"｜ "wrapper"｜ "labelWrapper" ｜ "label" ｜ "control" ｜ "description", string>` | Allows to set custom class names for the radio slots.                                          | -         |
