apps/docs/content/docs/components/scroll-shadow.mdx, before:

---
title: "Scroll Shadow"
description: "Applies top and bottom shadows when content overflows on scroll."
---

import {scrollShadowContent} from "@/content/components/scroll-shadow";

# Scroll Shadow

Applies top and bottom shadows when content overflows on scroll.

<ComponentLinks component="scroll-shadow" />

---

<CarbonAd />

## Import

<ImportTabs
  commands={{
    main: 'import {ScrollShadow} from "@nextui-org/react";',
    individual: 'import {ScrollShadow} from "@nextui-org/scroll-shadow";',
  }}
/>

## Usage

<CodeDemo title="Usage" files={scrollShadowContent.usage} />

### Hide Scrollbar

You can use the `hideScrollBar` property to hide vertical and horizontal scrollbars.

<CodeDemo title="Hide Scrollbar" files={scrollShadowContent.hideScrollbar} />

### Custom Shadow Size

By default, the shadow size is `40` in pixels, but you can change it using the `size` property.

<CodeDemo title="Custom Shadow Size" files={scrollShadowContent.customSize} />

### Horizontal Orientation

In case you need to apply the shadow on the horizontal scroll, you can set the `orientation` property to `horizontal`.

<CodeDemo title="Horizontal Orientation" files={scrollShadowContent.horizontal} />

### Shadow Offset

By default the shadow offset is `0` in pixels, but you can change it using the `offset` property. This allows you to apply the shadow on
a specific position.

<CodeDemo title="Shadow Offset" files={scrollShadowContent.offset} />

<Spacer y={4} />{" "}

## API

### ShadowScroll Props

| Attribute     | Type                       | Description                                     | Default    |
| ------------- | -------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------- | ---------- |
| size          | `number`                   | The shadow size in pixels.                      | `40`       |
| offset        | `number`                   | The scroll offset to show the shadow in pixels. | `0`        |
| hideScrollBar | `boolean`                  | Whether to hide the scrollbar or not.           | `false`    |
| orientation   | `horizontal` \| `vertical` | The scroll orientation.                         | `vertical` |
| isEnabled     | `boolean`                  | Whether the shadow is enabled or not.           | `true`     |

Commit message:

Feat/controlled scroll shadow (#1819)
* feat(scroll-shadow): logic improved, controlled support added

* feat(scroll-shadow): controlled visibility

* fix(scroll-shadow): visibility tests

apps/docs/content/docs/components/scroll-shadow.mdx, after:

---
title: "Scroll Shadow"
description: "Applies top and bottom shadows when content overflows on scroll."
---

import {scrollShadowContent} from "@/content/components/scroll-shadow";

# Scroll Shadow

Applies top and bottom shadows when content overflows on scroll.

<ComponentLinks component="scroll-shadow" />

---

<CarbonAd />

## Import

<ImportTabs
  commands={{
    main: 'import {ScrollShadow} from "@nextui-org/react";',
    individual: 'import {ScrollShadow} from "@nextui-org/scroll-shadow";',
  }}
/>

## Usage

<CodeDemo title="Usage" files={scrollShadowContent.usage} />

### Hide Scrollbar

You can use the `hideScrollBar` property to hide vertical and horizontal scrollbars.

<CodeDemo title="Hide Scrollbar" files={scrollShadowContent.hideScrollbar} />

### Custom Shadow Size

By default, the shadow size is `40` in pixels, but you can change it using the `size` property.

<CodeDemo title="Custom Shadow Size" files={scrollShadowContent.customSize} />

### Horizontal Orientation

In case you need to apply the shadow on the horizontal scroll, you can set the `orientation` property to `horizontal`.

<CodeDemo title="Horizontal Orientation" files={scrollShadowContent.horizontal} />

### Shadow Offset

By default the shadow offset is `0` in pixels, but you can change it using the `offset` property. This allows you to apply the shadow on
a specific position.

<CodeDemo title="Shadow Offset" files={scrollShadowContent.offset} />

<Spacer y={4} />

## API

### ShadowScroll Props

| Attribute     | Type                                                | Description                                     | Default    |
| ------------- | --------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------- | ---------- |
| size          | `number`                                            | The shadow size in pixels.                      | `40`       |
| offset        | `number`                                            | The scroll offset to show the shadow in pixels. | `0`        |
| hideScrollBar | `boolean`                                           | Whether to hide the scrollbar or not.           | `false`    |
| orientation   | `horizontal` \| `vertical`                          | The scroll orientation.                         | `vertical` |
| isEnabled     | `boolean`                                           | Whether the shadow is enabled or not.           | `true`     |
| visibility    | [ScrollShadowVisibility](#scroll-shadow-visibility) | The shadow visibility. (controlled)             | `auto`     |

### ShadowScroll Events

| Attribute          | Type                                           | Description                                          |
| ------------------ | ---------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------- |
| onVisibilityChange | `(visibility: ScrollShadowVisibility) => void` | Callback invoked when the shadow visibility changes. |

<Spacer y={2} />

### Types

#### Scroll Shadow Visibility

```ts
type ScrollShadowVisibility = "auto" | "top" | "bottom" | "left" | "right" | "both" | "none";
```
