apps/docs/content/docs/components/switch.mdx, before:

---
title: 'Switch'
description: 'The Switch component is used as an alternative for the Checkbox component. You can switch between enabled or disabled states.'
url: https://nextui.org/docs/components/switch
---

# Switch

The Switch component is used as an alternative for the [Checkbox](https://nextui.org/docs/components/checkbox)
component. You can switch between enabled or disabled states.

```jsx
import { Switch } from '@nextui-org/react';
```

<CarbonAd />

<Spacer y={2} />

<Playground
  title="Default"
  desc="You can change the state with `checked` prop"
  files={switchContent.default_switch}
/>

<Playground
  title="Initial cheked"
  desc="You can set the `Switch` to be checked by default using `initialChecked` prop"
  files={switchContent.initialCheck}
/>

<Playground
  title="Disabled"
  desc="Unusable and un-clickable `Switch`."
  files={switchContent.disabled}  
/>

<Playground
  title="Sizes"
  desc="Change the size of the entire `Switch` including `padding` and `border` with the `size` property."
  files={switchContent.size}
/>

<Playground
  title="Colors"
  desc="You can change the color of the `Switch` with the property color."
  files={switchContent.color}
/>

<Playground
  title="Shadow"
  desc="You can add a shadow effect with the property `shadow`."
  files={switchContent.shadow}
/>

<Playground
  title="Squared"
  desc="You can change the full style to a squared `Switch` with the `squared` property."
  files={switchContent.squared}
/>

<Playground
  title="Bordered"
  desc="You can change the full style to a bordered `Switch` with the `bordered` property."
  files={switchContent.bordered}
/>

<Playground
  title="No Animated"
  desc="You can disable the animation of the entire `Switch` with the property `animated={false}`."
  files={switchContent.noAnimated}
/>

<Playground
  title="Icons"
  desc="NextUI doesn't use any library or icon font by default, with this we give the freedom to use the one you prefer. In the following example we use [Boxicons](https://boxicons.com/)"
  files={switchContent.icon}
/>

<Spacer y={3} />

### APIs

<Spacer y={2} />

#### Switch Props

| Attribute          | Type                                         | Accepted values                | Description                                                               | Default   |
| ------------------ | -------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------- |
| **color**          | `NormalColors`                               | [NormalColors](#normal-colors) | Change switch color                                                       | `primary` |
| **size**           | `NormalSizes`                                | [NormalSizes](#normal-sizes)   | Switch size                                                               | `medium`  |
| **checked**        | `boolean`                                    | `true/false`                   | Selected or not (in single)                                               | `false`   |
| **initialChecked** | `boolean`                                    | `true/false`                   | Determine the initial value of the switch                                 | `false`   |
| **animated**       | `boolean`                                    | `true/false`                   | Display checkbox animations                                               | `true`    |
| **squared**        | `boolean`                                    | `true/false`                   | Squared switch                                                            | `false`   |
| **shadow**         | `boolean`                                    | `true/false`                   | Display shadow effect                                                     | `false`   |
| **disabled**       | `boolean`                                    | `true/false`                   | Disable switch                                                            | `false`   |
| **bordered**       | `boolean`                                    | `true/false`                   | Bordered switch                                                           | `false`   |
| **icon**           | `ReactNode`                                  | -                              | Add an icon for both status on/off                                        | -         |
| **iconOn**         | `ReactNode`                                  | -                              | Add an icon for on status                                                 | -         |
| **iconOff**        | `ReactNode`                                  | -                              | Add an icon for off status                                                | -         |
| **preventDefault** | `boolean`                                    | `true/false`                   | Prevent default event on when is selected through the `Space, Enter` keys | `true`    |
| **onChange**       | `(e:`[SwitchEvent](#switch-event)) `=> void` | -                              | The callback invoked when the checked state of the switch changes.        | -         |
| **css**            | `Stitches.CSS`                               | -                              | Override Default CSS style                                                | -         |
| **as**             | `keyof JSX.IntrinsicElements`                | -                              | Changes which tag component outputs                                       | `div`     |
| ...                | `LabelHTMLAttributes`                        | `'id', 'className', ...`       | Native props                                                              | -         |

<Spacer y={2} />

### Switch types

<Spacer y={1} />

#### Normal Colors

```ts
type NormalColors =
  | 'default'
  | 'primary'
  | 'secondary'
  | 'success'
  | 'warning'
  | 'error';
```

#### Normal Sizes

```ts
type NormalSizes = 'xs' | 'sm' | 'md' | 'lg' | 'xl';
```

#### Switch Event

```ts
interface SwitchEvent {
  target: SwitchEventTarget;
  stopPropagation: () => void;
  preventDefault: () => void;
  nativeEvent: React.ChangeEvent;
}
```

#### Switch Event Target

```ts
interface SwitchEventTarget {
  checked: boolean;
}
```

Commit message:

Add name to switch input element.
Useful when a switch appears in a form with conjunction with formData.

apps/docs/content/docs/components/switch.mdx, after:

---
title: 'Switch'
description: 'The Switch component is used as an alternative for the Checkbox component. You can switch between enabled or disabled states.'
url: https://nextui.org/docs/components/switch
---

# Switch

The Switch component is used as an alternative for the [Checkbox](https://nextui.org/docs/components/checkbox)
component. You can switch between enabled or disabled states.

```jsx
import { Switch } from '@nextui-org/react';
```

<CarbonAd />

<Spacer y={2} />

<Playground
  title="Default"
  desc="You can change the state with `checked` prop"
  files={switchContent.default_switch}
/>

<Playground
  title="Initial cheked"
  desc="You can set the `Switch` to be checked by default using `initialChecked` prop"
  files={switchContent.initialCheck}
/>

<Playground
  title="Disabled"
  desc="Unusable and un-clickable `Switch`."
  files={switchContent.disabled}
/>

<Playground
  title="Sizes"
  desc="Change the size of the entire `Switch` including `padding` and `border` with the `size` property."
  files={switchContent.size}
/>

<Playground
  title="Colors"
  desc="You can change the color of the `Switch` with the property color."
  files={switchContent.color}
/>

<Playground
  title="Shadow"
  desc="You can add a shadow effect with the property `shadow`."
  files={switchContent.shadow}
/>

<Playground
  title="Squared"
  desc="You can change the full style to a squared `Switch` with the `squared` property."
  files={switchContent.squared}
/>

<Playground
  title="Bordered"
  desc="You can change the full style to a bordered `Switch` with the `bordered` property."
  files={switchContent.bordered}
/>

<Playground
  title="No Animated"
  desc="You can disable the animation of the entire `Switch` with the property `animated={false}`."
  files={switchContent.noAnimated}
/>

<Playground
  title="Icons"
  desc="NextUI doesn't use any library or icon font by default, with this we give the freedom to use the one you prefer. In the following example we use [Boxicons](https://boxicons.com/)"
  files={switchContent.icon}
/>

<Spacer y={3} />

### APIs

<Spacer y={2} />

#### Switch Props

| Attribute          | Type                                         | Accepted values                | Description                                                               | Default   |
| ------------------ | -------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------- |
| **color**          | `NormalColors`                               | [NormalColors](#normal-colors) | Change switch color                                                       | `primary` |
| **size**           | `NormalSizes`                                | [NormalSizes](#normal-sizes)   | Switch size                                                               | `medium`  |
| **checked**        | `boolean`                                    | `true/false`                   | Selected or not (in single)                                               | `false`   |
| **initialChecked** | `boolean`                                    | `true/false`                   | Determine the initial value of the switch                                 | `false`   |
| **animated**       | `boolean`                                    | `true/false`                   | Display checkbox animations                                               | `true`    |
| **squared**        | `boolean`                                    | `true/false`                   | Squared switch                                                            | `false`   |
| **shadow**         | `boolean`                                    | `true/false`                   | Display shadow effect                                                     | `false`   |
| **disabled**       | `boolean`                                    | `true/false`                   | Disable switch                                                            | `false`   |
| **bordered**       | `boolean`                                    | `true/false`                   | Bordered switch                                                           | `false`   |
| **icon**           | `ReactNode`                                  | -                              | Add an icon for both status on/off                                        | -         |
| **iconOn**         | `ReactNode`                                  | -                              | Add an icon for on status                                                 | -         |
| **iconOff**        | `ReactNode`                                  | -                              | Add an icon for off status                                                | -         |
| **preventDefault** | `boolean`                                    | `true/false`                   | Prevent default event on when is selected through the `Space, Enter` keys | `true`    |
| **name**           | `string`                                     | -                              | Add a name to the **input** of the switch.                                | -         |
| **onChange**       | `(e:`[SwitchEvent](#switch-event)) `=> void` | -                              | The callback invoked when the checked state of the switch changes.        | -         |
| **css**            | `Stitches.CSS`                               | -                              | Override Default CSS style                                                | -         |
| **as**             | `keyof JSX.IntrinsicElements`                | -                              | Changes which tag component outputs                                       | `div`     |
| ...                | `LabelHTMLAttributes`                        | `'id', 'className', ...`       | Native props                                                              | -         |

<Spacer y={2} />

### Switch types

<Spacer y={1} />

#### Normal Colors

```ts
type NormalColors =
  | 'default'
  | 'primary'
  | 'secondary'
  | 'success'
  | 'warning'
  | 'error';
```

#### Normal Sizes

```ts
type NormalSizes = 'xs' | 'sm' | 'md' | 'lg' | 'xl';
```

#### Switch Event

```ts
interface SwitchEvent {
  target: SwitchEventTarget;
  stopPropagation: () => void;
  preventDefault: () => void;
  nativeEvent: React.ChangeEvent;
}
```

#### Switch Event Target

```ts
interface SwitchEventTarget {
  checked: boolean;
}
```
