apps/docs/content/docs/components/textarea.mdx, before:

---
title: "Textarea"
description: "Textarea component is a multi-line Input which allows you to write large texts."
---

import {textareaContent} from "@/content/components/textarea";

# Textarea

Textarea component is a multi-line Input which allows you to write large texts.

<ComponentLinks component="input" storybook="textarea" reactAriaHook="useTextField" />

---



## Installation

<PackageManagers
  showGlobalInstallWarning
  commands={{
    cli: "npx nextui-cli@latest add input",
    npm: "npm install @nextui-org/input",
    yarn: "yarn add @nextui-org/input",
    pnpm: "pnpm add @nextui-org/input",
    bun: "bun add @nextui-org/input"
  }}
/>


## Import

<ImportTabs
  commands={{
    main: 'import {Textarea} from "@nextui-org/react";',
    individual: 'import {Textarea} from "@nextui-org/input";',
  }}
/>

## Usage

<CodeDemo title="Usage" files={textareaContent.usage} />

### Disabled

<CodeDemo title="Disabled" files={textareaContent.disabled} />

### Read Only

<CodeDemo title="Readonly" files={textareaContent.readonly} />

### Required

If you pass the `isRequired` property to the input, it will have a `danger` asterisk at
the end of the label and the textarea will be required.

<CodeDemo title="Required" files={textareaContent.required} />

### Autosize

Textarea grows automatically based on the content, but you can also set a min and max height to
it using the `minRows` and `maxRows` properties. It is based on [react-textarea-autosize](https://github.com/Andarist/react-textarea-autosize).

<CodeDemo title="Autosize" files={textareaContent.autosize} />

### Without Autosize

In case you want to disable the autosize feature, you can use the `disableAutosize` property.

<CodeDemo title="Without Autosize" files={textareaContent.disableAutosize} />

### Variants

<CodeDemo title="Variants" files={textareaContent.variants} />

### With Error Message

You can combine the `isInvalid` and `errorMessage` properties to show an invalid textarea.

<CodeDemo title="With Error Message" files={textareaContent.errorMessage} />

### Description

<CodeDemo title="Description" files={textareaContent.description} />

### Controlled

You can use the `value` and `onValueChange` properties to control the input value.

<CodeDemo title="Controlled" files={textareaContent.controlled} />

> **Note**: NextUI `Textarea` also supports native events like `onChange`, useful for form libraries
> such as [Formik](https://formik.org/) and [React Hook Form](https://react-hook-form.com/).

## Slots

- **base**: Input wrapper, it handles alignment, placement, and general appearance.
- **label**: Label of the textarea, it is the one that is displayed above, inside or left of the textarea.
- **inputWrapper**: Wraps the `label` (when it is inside) and the `innerWrapper`.
- **input**: The textarea input element.
- **description**: The description of the textarea.
- **errorMessage**: The error message of the textarea.

<Spacer y={4} />{" "}

## Data Attributes

`Textarea` has the following attributes on the `base` element:

- **data-invalid**:
  When the textarea is invalid. Based on `isInvalid` prop.
- **data-required**:
  When the textarea is required. Based on `isRequired` prop.
- **data-readonly**:
  When the textarea is readonly. Based on `isReadOnly` prop.
- **data-hover**:
  When the textarea is being hovered. Based on [useHover](https://react-spectrum.adobe.com/react-aria/useHover.html)
- **data-focus**:
  When the textarea is being focused. Based on [useFocusRing](https://react-spectrum.adobe.com/react-aria/useFocusRing.html).
- **data-focus-visible**:
  When the textarea is being focused with the keyboard. Based on [useFocusRing](https://react-spectrum.adobe.com/react-aria/useFocusRing.html).
- **data-disabled**:
  When the textarea is disabled. Based on `isDisabled` prop.

<Spacer y={4} />{" "}

## Accessibility

- Built with a native `<input>` element.
- Visual and ARIA labeling support.
- Change, clipboard, composition, selection, and input event support.
- Required and invalid states exposed to assistive technology via ARIA.
- Support for description and error message help text linked to the input via ARIA.

<Spacer y={4} />{" "}

## API

### Textarea Props

| Attribute          | Type                                                                                                               | Description                                                                                                                                                   | Default   |
| ------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------- |
| children           | `ReactNode`                                                                                                        | The content of the textarea.                                                                                                                                  | -         |
| minRows            | `number`                                                                                                           | The minimum number of rows to display.                                                                                                                        | `3`       |
| maxRows            | `number`                                                                                                           | Maximum number of rows up to which the textarea can grow.                                                                                                     | `8`       |
| cacheMeasurements  | `boolean`                                                                                                          | Reuse previously computed measurements when computing height of textarea.                                                                                     | `false`   |
| variant            | `flat` \| `bordered` \| `faded` \| `underlined`                                                                    | The variant of the textarea.                                                                                                                                  | `flat`    |
| color              | `default` \| `primary` \| `secondary` \| `success` \| `warning` \| `danger`                                        | The color of the textarea.                                                                                                                                    | `default` |
| size               | `sm`\|`md`\|`lg`                                                                                                   | The size of the textarea.                                                                                                                                     | `md`      |
| radius             | `none` \| `sm` \| `md` \| `lg` \| `full`                                                                           | The radius of the textarea.                                                                                                                                   | -         |
| label              | `ReactNode`                                                                                                        | The content to display as the label.                                                                                                                          | -         |
| value              | `string`                                                                                                           | The current value of the textarea (controlled).                                                                                                               | -         |
| defaultValue       | `string`                                                                                                           | The default value of the textarea (uncontrolled).                                                                                                             | -         |
| placeholder        | `string`                                                                                                           | The placeholder of the textarea.                                                                                                                              | -         |
| startContent       | `ReactNode`                                                                                                        | Element to be rendered in the left side of the input.                                                                                                         | -         |
| endContent         | `ReactNode`                                                                                                        | Element to be rendered in the right side of the input.                                                                                                        | -         |
| description        | `ReactNode`                                                                                                        | A description for the textarea. Provides a hint such as specific requirements for what to choose.                                                             | -         |
| errorMessage       | `ReactNode` \| `((v: ValidationResult) => ReactNode)`                                                              | An error message for the textarea.                                                                                                                            | -         |
| validate           | `(value: string) => ValidationError ｜ true ｜ null ｜ undefined`                                                   | Validate input values when committing (e.g. on blur), and return error messages for invalid values.                                                           | -         |
| validationBehavior | `native` \| `aria`                                                                                                 | Whether to use native HTML form validation to prevent form submission when the value is missing or invalid, or mark the field as required or invalid via ARIA.| `aria`    |
| labelPlacement     | `inside` \| `outside` \| `outside-left`                                                                            | The position of the label.                                                                                                                                    | `inside`  |
| fullWidth          | `boolean`                                                                                                          | Whether the textarea should take up the width of its parent.                                                                                                  | `true`    |
| isRequired         | `boolean`                                                                                                          | Whether user input is required on the textarea before form submission.                                                                                        | `false`   |
| isReadOnly         | `boolean`                                                                                                          | Whether the textarea can be selected but not changed by the user.                                                                                             |           |
| isDisabled         | `boolean`                                                                                                          | Whether the textarea is disabled.                                                                                                                             | `false`   |
| isInvalid          | `boolean`                                                                                                          | Whether the textarea is invalid.                                                                                                                              | `false`   |
| validationState    | `valid` \| `invalid`                                                                                               | Whether the textarea should display its "valid" or "invalid" visual styling. (**Deprecated**) use **isInvalid** instead.                                      | -         |
| disableAutosize    | `boolean`                                                                                                          | Whether the textarea auto vertically resize should be disabled.                                                                                               | `false`   |
| disableAnimation   | `boolean`                                                                                                          | Whether the textarea should be animated.                                                                                                                      | `false`   |
| classNames         | `Record<"base"｜ "label"｜ "inputWrapper"｜ "innerWrapper" ｜ "input" ｜ "description" ｜ "errorMessage", string>`   | Allows to set custom class names for the checkbox slots.                                                                                                      | -         |

### Input Events

| Attribute      | Type                                                    | Description                                                                                                                         |
| -------------- | ------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| onChange       | `React.ChangeEvent <HTMLInputElement>`                  | Handler that is called when the element's value changes. You can pull out the new value by accessing `event.target.value` (string). |
| onValueChange  | `(value: string) => void`                               | Handler that is called when the element's value changes.                                                                            |
| onClear        | `() => void`                                            | Handler that is called when the clear button is clicked.                                                                            |
| onHeightChange | `(height: number, meta: { rowHeight: number }) => void` | Handler that is called when the height of the textarea changes.                                                                     |

Commit message:

chore: supplement validation behavior (#3106)
* chore(input): set validationBehavior to native

* chore(docs): revise validate content in input

* chore(input): set validationBehavior to native

* chore(docs): add Validation Behavior to breaking change

* chore(docs): revise content in cli

* chore(docs): fix typo

* chore(docs): update validate in other components

* chore(docs): update validate content

* chore(input): undo validationBehavior

* refactor(docs): revise validate content

apps/docs/content/docs/components/textarea.mdx, after:

---
title: "Textarea"
description: "Textarea component is a multi-line Input which allows you to write large texts."
---

import {textareaContent} from "@/content/components/textarea";

# Textarea

Textarea component is a multi-line Input which allows you to write large texts.

<ComponentLinks component="input" storybook="textarea" reactAriaHook="useTextField" />

---



## Installation

<PackageManagers
  showGlobalInstallWarning
  commands={{
    cli: "npx nextui-cli@latest add input",
    npm: "npm install @nextui-org/input",
    yarn: "yarn add @nextui-org/input",
    pnpm: "pnpm add @nextui-org/input",
    bun: "bun add @nextui-org/input"
  }}
/>


## Import

<ImportTabs
  commands={{
    main: 'import {Textarea} from "@nextui-org/react";',
    individual: 'import {Textarea} from "@nextui-org/input";',
  }}
/>

## Usage

<CodeDemo title="Usage" files={textareaContent.usage} />

### Disabled

<CodeDemo title="Disabled" files={textareaContent.disabled} />

### Read Only

<CodeDemo title="Readonly" files={textareaContent.readonly} />

### Required

If you pass the `isRequired` property to the input, it will have a `danger` asterisk at
the end of the label and the textarea will be required.

<CodeDemo title="Required" files={textareaContent.required} />

### Autosize

Textarea grows automatically based on the content, but you can also set a min and max height to
it using the `minRows` and `maxRows` properties. It is based on [react-textarea-autosize](https://github.com/Andarist/react-textarea-autosize).

<CodeDemo title="Autosize" files={textareaContent.autosize} />

### Without Autosize

In case you want to disable the autosize feature, you can use the `disableAutosize` property.

<CodeDemo title="Without Autosize" files={textareaContent.disableAutosize} />

### Variants

<CodeDemo title="Variants" files={textareaContent.variants} />

### With Error Message

You can combine the `isInvalid` and `errorMessage` properties to show an invalid textarea.

<CodeDemo title="With Error Message" files={textareaContent.errorMessage} />

### Description

<CodeDemo title="Description" files={textareaContent.description} />

### Controlled

You can use the `value` and `onValueChange` properties to control the input value.

<CodeDemo title="Controlled" files={textareaContent.controlled} />

> **Note**: NextUI `Textarea` also supports native events like `onChange`, useful for form libraries
> such as [Formik](https://formik.org/) and [React Hook Form](https://react-hook-form.com/).

## Slots

- **base**: Input wrapper, it handles alignment, placement, and general appearance.
- **label**: Label of the textarea, it is the one that is displayed above, inside or left of the textarea.
- **inputWrapper**: Wraps the `label` (when it is inside) and the `innerWrapper`.
- **input**: The textarea input element.
- **description**: The description of the textarea.
- **errorMessage**: The error message of the textarea.

<Spacer y={4} />{" "}

## Data Attributes

`Textarea` has the following attributes on the `base` element:

- **data-invalid**:
  When the textarea is invalid. Based on `isInvalid` prop.
- **data-required**:
  When the textarea is required. Based on `isRequired` prop.
- **data-readonly**:
  When the textarea is readonly. Based on `isReadOnly` prop.
- **data-hover**:
  When the textarea is being hovered. Based on [useHover](https://react-spectrum.adobe.com/react-aria/useHover.html)
- **data-focus**:
  When the textarea is being focused. Based on [useFocusRing](https://react-spectrum.adobe.com/react-aria/useFocusRing.html).
- **data-focus-visible**:
  When the textarea is being focused with the keyboard. Based on [useFocusRing](https://react-spectrum.adobe.com/react-aria/useFocusRing.html).
- **data-disabled**:
  When the textarea is disabled. Based on `isDisabled` prop.

<Spacer y={4} />{" "}

## Accessibility

- Built with a native `<input>` element.
- Visual and ARIA labeling support.
- Change, clipboard, composition, selection, and input event support.
- Required and invalid states exposed to assistive technology via ARIA.
- Support for description and error message help text linked to the input via ARIA.

<Spacer y={4} />{" "}

## API

### Textarea Props

| Attribute          | Type                                                                                                               | Description                                                                                                                                                   | Default   |
| ------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------- |
| children           | `ReactNode`                                                                                                        | The content of the textarea.                                                                                                                                  | -         |
| minRows            | `number`                                                                                                           | The minimum number of rows to display.                                                                                                                        | `3`       |
| maxRows            | `number`                                                                                                           | Maximum number of rows up to which the textarea can grow.                                                                                                     | `8`       |
| cacheMeasurements  | `boolean`                                                                                                          | Reuse previously computed measurements when computing height of textarea.                                                                                     | `false`   |
| variant            | `flat` \| `bordered` \| `faded` \| `underlined`                                                                    | The variant of the textarea.                                                                                                                                  | `flat`    |
| color              | `default` \| `primary` \| `secondary` \| `success` \| `warning` \| `danger`                                        | The color of the textarea.                                                                                                                                    | `default` |
| size               | `sm`\|`md`\|`lg`                                                                                                   | The size of the textarea.                                                                                                                                     | `md`      |
| radius             | `none` \| `sm` \| `md` \| `lg` \| `full`                                                                           | The radius of the textarea.                                                                                                                                   | -         |
| label              | `ReactNode`                                                                                                        | The content to display as the label.                                                                                                                          | -         |
| value              | `string`                                                                                                           | The current value of the textarea (controlled).                                                                                                               | -         |
| defaultValue       | `string`                                                                                                           | The default value of the textarea (uncontrolled).                                                                                                             | -         |
| placeholder        | `string`                                                                                                           | The placeholder of the textarea.                                                                                                                              | -         |
| startContent       | `ReactNode`                                                                                                        | Element to be rendered in the left side of the input.                                                                                                         | -         |
| endContent         | `ReactNode`                                                                                                        | Element to be rendered in the right side of the input.                                                                                                        | -         |
| description        | `ReactNode`                                                                                                        | A description for the textarea. Provides a hint such as specific requirements for what to choose.                                                             | -         |
| errorMessage       | `ReactNode` \| `((v: ValidationResult) => ReactNode)`                                                              | An error message for the textarea.                                                                                                                            | -         |
| validate           | `(value: string) => ValidationError ｜ true ｜ null ｜ undefined`                                                   | Validate input values when committing (e.g. on blur), returning error messages for invalid values. Validation errors are displayed upon form submission if `validationBehavior` is set to `native`. For real-time validation, use the `isInvalid` prop.| -         |
| validationBehavior | `native` \| `aria`                                                                                                 | Whether to use native HTML form validation to prevent form submission when the value is missing or invalid, or mark the field as required or invalid via ARIA.| `aria`    |
| labelPlacement     | `inside` \| `outside` \| `outside-left`                                                                            | The position of the label.                                                                                                                                    | `inside`  |
| fullWidth          | `boolean`                                                                                                          | Whether the textarea should take up the width of its parent.                                                                                                  | `true`    |
| isRequired         | `boolean`                                                                                                          | Whether user input is required on the textarea before form submission.                                                                                        | `false`   |
| isReadOnly         | `boolean`                                                                                                          | Whether the textarea can be selected but not changed by the user.                                                                                             |           |
| isDisabled         | `boolean`                                                                                                          | Whether the textarea is disabled.                                                                                                                             | `false`   |
| isInvalid          | `boolean`                                                                                                          | Whether the textarea is invalid.                                                                                                                              | `false`   |
| validationState    | `valid` \| `invalid`                                                                                               | Whether the textarea should display its "valid" or "invalid" visual styling. (**Deprecated**) use **isInvalid** instead.                                      | -         |
| disableAutosize    | `boolean`                                                                                                          | Whether the textarea auto vertically resize should be disabled.                                                                                               | `false`   |
| disableAnimation   | `boolean`                                                                                                          | Whether the textarea should be animated.                                                                                                                      | `false`   |
| classNames         | `Record<"base"｜ "label"｜ "inputWrapper"｜ "innerWrapper" ｜ "input" ｜ "description" ｜ "errorMessage", string>`   | Allows to set custom class names for the checkbox slots.                                                                                                      | -         |

### Input Events

| Attribute      | Type                                                    | Description                                                                                                                         |
| -------------- | ------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| onChange       | `React.ChangeEvent <HTMLInputElement>`                  | Handler that is called when the element's value changes. You can pull out the new value by accessing `event.target.value` (string). |
| onValueChange  | `(value: string) => void`                               | Handler that is called when the element's value changes.                                                                            |
| onClear        | `() => void`                                            | Handler that is called when the clear button is clicked.                                                                            |
| onHeightChange | `(height: number, meta: { rowHeight: number }) => void` | Handler that is called when the height of the textarea changes.                                                                     |
