apps/docs/content/docs/components/tooltip.mdx, before:

---
title: 'Tooltip'
description: 'Tooltips displays informative text when users hover, focus, or click an element.'
url: https://nextui.org/docs/components/tooltip
---

# Tooltip

Tooltips displays informative text when users hover, focus, or click an element.

```jsx
import { Tooltip } from '@nextui-org/react';
```

<CarbonAd />

<Spacer y={2} />

<Playground
  title="Default"
  desc="The default `Tooltip` has the background color."
  files={tooltipContent.default_tooltip}
/>

<Playground
  title="Rounded"
  desc="You can completely round the `Tooltip` corners with the `rounded` property."
  files={tooltipContent.rounded}
/>

<Playground
  title="Colors"
  desc="You can change the color of the `Tooltip` with the property color."
  files={tooltipContent.color}
/>

<Playground
  title="Text Colors"
  desc="You can change the `Tooltip` text color with `contentColor` prop"
  files={tooltipContent.textColor}
/>

<Playground
  title="Trigger"
  desc="You can control the way to trigger the `Tooltip` wheater `hover` or `click` using the `trigger` property."
  files={tooltipContent.trigger}
/>

<Playground
  title="Placements"
  desc="Change the placement of the tooltip with the `placement` prop"
  files={tooltipContent.placement}
/>

<Playground
  title="Not Arrow"
  desc="In some cases you may need to remove the arrow from the tooltip for this case you can use the `hideArrow` property"
  files={tooltipContent.noArrow}
/>

<Playground
  title="Custom Content"
  desc="You can customize the `Tooltip` content."
  files={tooltipContent.customContent}
/>

<Spacer y={3} />

### APIs

<Spacer y={2} />

#### Tooltip Props

| Attribute           | Type                          | Accepted values                                      | Description                                                | Default   |
| ------------------- | ----------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------- | --------- |
| **content**         | `React.ReactNode` `string`    | -                                                    | Tooltip content                                            | -         |
| **color**           | `TooltipTypes` `string`       | [TooltipColors](#tooltip-colors)                     | Change tooltip background color                            | `default` |
| **contentColor**    | `SimpleColors` `string`       | [SimpleColors](#simple-colors)                       | Checkbox tooltip text color                                | `default` |
| **placement**       | `Placement`                   | [Placement](#placement)                              | Tooltip placement relative to the target                   | `top`     |
| **initialVisible**  | `boolean`                     | `true/false`                                         | Determine if the tooltip is visible on initial             | `false`   |
| **animated**        | `boolean`                     | `true/false`                                         | Display tooltip animations                                 | `true`    |
| **visible**         | `boolean`                     | `true/false`                                         | Force if the tooltip is visible or not                     | -         |
| **shadow**          | `boolean`                     | `true/false`                                         | Display shadow effect                                      | `false`   |
| **rounded**         | `boolean`                     | `true/false`                                         | Rounded tooltip                                            | `false`   |
| **hideArrow**       | `boolean`                     | `true/false`                                         | Hide tooltip arrow icon                                    | -         |
| **keepMounted**     | `boolean`                     | `true/false`                                         | Keep tooltip mounted on the DOM                            | `false`   |
| **trigger**         | `TriggerTypes`                | [TriggerTypes](#trigger-types)                       | Tooltip trigger mode                                       | `hover`   |
| **enterDelay(ms)**  | `number`                      | -                                                    | Delay before tooltip is shown                              | `0`       |
| **leaveDelay(ms)**  | `number`                      | -                                                    | Delay before tooltip is hidden (only works in 'hover' mode) | `0`       |
| **offset(px)**      | `number`                      | -                                                    | Distance between tooltip and target                        | `12`      |
| **portalClassName** | `string`                      | -                                                    | Tooltip box content className                              | -         |
| **onVisibleChange** | `number`                      | [TooltipOnVisibleChange](#tooltip-on-visible-change) | Callback when tooltip visibility has changed               | -         |
| **css**             | `Stitches.CSS`                | -                                                    | Override Default CSS style                                 | -         |
| **as**              | `keyof JSX.IntrinsicElements` | -                                                    | Changes which tag component outputs                        | `div`     |
| ...                 | `DivHTMLAttributes`           | `'className', 'id', ...`                             | Native div props                                           | -         |

<Spacer y={2} />

### Tooltip types

<Spacer y={1} />

#### Tooltip Colors

```ts
type TooltipColors =
  | 'default'
  | 'primary'
  | 'secondary'
  | 'success'
  | 'warning'
  | 'error'
  | 'invert';
```

#### Simple Colors

```ts
type SimpleColors =
  | 'default'
  | 'primary'
  | 'secondary'
  | 'success'
  | 'warning'
  | 'error';
```

#### Placement

```ts
type Placement =
  | 'top'
  | 'topStart'
  | 'topEnd'
  | 'left'
  | 'leftStart'
  | 'leftEnd'
  | 'bottom'
  | 'bottomStart'
  | 'bottomEnd'
  | 'right'
  | 'rightStart'
  | 'rightEnd';
```

#### Trigger Types

```ts
type TriggerTypes = 'hover' | 'click';
```

#### Tooltip On Visible Change

```ts
type TooltipOnVisibleChange = (visible: boolean) => void;
```

Commit message:

chore(tooltip): isDisabled prop added

apps/docs/content/docs/components/tooltip.mdx, after:

---
title: 'Tooltip'
description: 'Tooltips displays informative text when users hover, focus, or click an element.'
url: https://nextui.org/docs/components/tooltip
---

# Tooltip

Tooltips displays informative text when users hover, focus, or click an element.

```jsx
import { Tooltip } from '@nextui-org/react';
```

<CarbonAd />

<Spacer y={2} />

<Playground
  title="Default"
  desc="The default `Tooltip` has the background color."
  files={tooltipContent.default_tooltip}
/>

<Playground
  title="Rounded"
  desc="You can completely round the `Tooltip` corners with the `rounded` property."
  files={tooltipContent.rounded}
/>

<Playground
  title="Colors"
  desc="You can change the color of the `Tooltip` with the property color."
  files={tooltipContent.color}
/>

<Playground
  title="Text Colors"
  desc="You can change the `Tooltip` text color with `contentColor` prop"
  files={tooltipContent.textColor}
/>

<Playground
  title="Trigger"
  desc="You can control the way to trigger the `Tooltip` wheater `hover` or `click` using the `trigger` property."
  files={tooltipContent.trigger}
/>

<Playground
  title="Placements"
  desc="Change the placement of the tooltip with the `placement` prop"
  files={tooltipContent.placement}
/>

<Playground
  title="Not Arrow"
  desc="In some cases you may need to remove the arrow from the tooltip for this case you can use the `hideArrow` property"
  files={tooltipContent.noArrow}
/>

<Playground
  title="Custom Content"
  desc="You can customize the `Tooltip` content."
  files={tooltipContent.customContent}
/>

<Spacer y={3} />

### APIs

<Spacer y={2} />

#### Tooltip Props

| Attribute           | Type                          | Accepted values                                      | Description                                                | Default   |
| ------------------- | ----------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------- | --------- |
| **content**         | `React.ReactNode` `string`    | -                                                    | Tooltip content                                            | -         |
| **color**           | `TooltipTypes` `string`       | [TooltipColors](#tooltip-colors)                     | Change tooltip background color                            | `default` |
| **contentColor**    | `SimpleColors` `string`       | [SimpleColors](#simple-colors)                       | Checkbox tooltip text color                                | `default` |
| **placement**       | `Placement`                   | [Placement](#placement)                              | Tooltip placement relative to the target                   | `top`     |
| **initialVisible**  | `boolean`                     | `true/false`                                         | Determine if the tooltip is visible on initial             | `false`   |
| **animated**        | `boolean`                     | `true/false`                                         | Display tooltip animations                                 | `true`    |
| **visible**         | `boolean`                     | `true/false`                                         | Force if the tooltip is visible or not                     | -         |
| **shadow**          | `boolean`                     | `true/false`                                         | Display shadow effect                                      | `false`   |
| **rounded**         | `boolean`                     | `true/false`                                         | Rounded tooltip                                            | `false`   |
| **hideArrow**       | `boolean`                     | `true/false`                                         | Hide tooltip arrow icon                                    | -         |
| **keepMounted**     | `boolean`                     | `true/false`                                         | Keep tooltip mounted on the DOM                            | `false`   |
| ***isDisabled**     | `boolean`                     | `true/false`                                         | Whether the tooltip content should be displayed or not     | `false`   |
| **trigger**         | `TriggerTypes`                | [TriggerTypes](#trigger-types)                       | Tooltip trigger mode                                       | `hover`   |
| **enterDelay(ms)**  | `number`                      | -                                                    | Delay before tooltip is shown                              | `0`       |
| **leaveDelay(ms)**  | `number`                      | -                                                    | Delay before tooltip is hidden (only works in 'hover' mode) | `0`       |
| **offset(px)**      | `number`                      | -                                                    | Distance between tooltip and target                        | `12`      |
| **portalClassName** | `string`                      | -                                                    | Tooltip box content className                              | -         |
| **onVisibleChange** | `number`                      | [TooltipOnVisibleChange](#tooltip-on-visible-change) | Callback when tooltip visibility has changed               | -         |
| **css**             | `Stitches.CSS`                | -                                                    | Override Default CSS style                                 | -         |
| **as**              | `keyof JSX.IntrinsicElements` | -                                                    | Changes which tag component outputs                        | `div`     |
| ...                 | `DivHTMLAttributes`           | `'className', 'id', ...`                             | Native div props                                           | -         |

<Spacer y={2} />

### Tooltip types

<Spacer y={1} />

#### Tooltip Colors

```ts
type TooltipColors =
  | 'default'
  | 'primary'
  | 'secondary'
  | 'success'
  | 'warning'
  | 'error'
  | 'invert';
```

#### Simple Colors

```ts
type SimpleColors =
  | 'default'
  | 'primary'
  | 'secondary'
  | 'success'
  | 'warning'
  | 'error';
```

#### Placement

```ts
type Placement =
  | 'top'
  | 'topStart'
  | 'topEnd'
  | 'left'
  | 'leftStart'
  | 'leftEnd'
  | 'bottom'
  | 'bottomStart'
  | 'bottomEnd'
  | 'right'
  | 'rightStart'
  | 'rightEnd';
```

#### Trigger Types

```ts
type TriggerTypes = 'hover' | 'click';
```

#### Tooltip On Visible Change

```ts
type TooltipOnVisibleChange = (visible: boolean) => void;
```
