apps/docs/content/docs/api-references/nextui-provider.mdx, before:

---
title: NextUI Provider
description: API References for NextUI Provider
---

# NextUI Provider

API reference for the `NextUIProvider`. 

------

## Import

<ImportTabs
  commands={{
    main: 'import {NextUIProvider} from "@nextui-org/react";',
    individual: 'import {NextUIProvider} from "@nextui-org/system";',
  }}
/>

## Usage

```jsx
import * as React from "react";
import {NextUIProvider} from "@nextui-org/react";

function App() {
  return (
    <NextUIProvider>
      <YourApplication />
    </NextUIProvider>
  );
}
```

## Props

<Spacer y={6}/>

`navigate`

- **Description**: Provides a client side router to all nested components such as Link, Menu, Tabs, Table, etc.
- **Type**: `((path: string) => void) | undefined`

<Spacer y={2}/>

`locale`

- **Description**: The locale to apply to the children.
- **Type**: `string | undefined`
- **Default**: `en-US`


Here's the supported locales. By default, It is `en-US`.

```tsx
const localeValues = [
  'fr-FR', 'fr-CA', 'de-DE', 'en-US', 'en-GB', 'ja-JP',
  'da-DK', 'nl-NL', 'fi-FI', 'it-IT', 'nb-NO', 'es-ES', 
  'sv-SE', 'pt-BR', 'zh-CN', 'zh-TW', 'ko-KR', 'bg-BG', 
  'hr-HR', 'cs-CZ', 'et-EE', 'hu-HU', 'lv-LV', 'lt-LT', 
  'pl-PL', 'ro-RO', 'ru-RU', 'sr-SP', 'sk-SK', 'sl-SI', 
  'tr-TR', 'uk-UA', 'ar-AE', 'ar-DZ', 'AR-EG', 'ar-SA', 
  'el-GR', 'he-IL', 'fa-AF', 'am-ET', 'hi-IN', 'th-TH'
];
```

Here's an example to set a Spanish locale.

```tsx
"use client";

import {type ReactNode} from "react";
import {NextUIProvider} from "@nextui-org/react";

export function AppProvider(props: AppProviderProps) {
  const {children, className} = props;

  return (
    <NextUIProvider locale="es-ES" className={className}>
      {children}
    </NextUIProvider>
  );
}

interface AppProviderProps {
  children: ReactNode;
  className?: string;
}
```

<Spacer y={2}/>

`defaultDates`

- **Description**: The default dates range that can be selected in the calendar.
- **Type**: `{ minDate?: CalendarDate | undefined; maxDate?: CalendarDate | undefined; }`
- **Default**: `{ minDate: new CalendarDate(1900, 1, 1), maxDate: new CalendarDate(2099, 12, 31) }`

<Spacer y={2}/>

`createCalendar`

- **Description**: 
    This function helps to reduce the bundle size by providing a custom calendar system.

    By default, this includes all calendar systems supported by `@internationalized/date`. However,
    if your application supports a more limited set of regions, or you know you will only be picking dates
    in a certain calendar system, you can reduce your bundle size by providing your own implementation
    of `createCalendar` that includes a subset of these Calendar implementations.

    For example, if your application only supports Gregorian dates, you could implement a `createCalendar`
    function like this:

    ```tsx
    import {GregorianCalendar} from '@internationalized/date';

    function createCalendar(identifier) {
    switch (identifier) {
      case 'gregory':
        return new GregorianCalendar();
      default:
        throw new Error(`Unsupported calendar ${identifier}`);
    }
    }
    ```

    This way, only GregorianCalendar is imported, and the other calendar implementations can be tree-shaken.

- **Type**: `((calendar: SupportedCalendars) => Calendar | null) | undefined`

<Spacer y={2}/>

`disableAnimation`

- **Description**: Disables animations globally. This will also avoid `framer-motion` features to be loaded in the bundle which can potentially reduce the bundle size.
- **Type**: `boolean`
- **Default**: `false`

<Spacer y={2}/>

`disableRipple`

- **Description**: Disables ripple effect globally.
- **Type**: `boolean`
- **Default**: `false`

<Spacer y={2}/>

`skipFramerMotionAnimations`

- **Description**:
  Controls whether `framer-motion` animations are skipped within the application.
  This property is automatically enabled (`true`) when the `disableAnimation` prop is set to `true`,
  effectively skipping all `framer-motion` animations. To retain `framer-motion` animations while
  using the `disableAnimation` prop for other purposes, set this to `false`. However, note that
  animations in NextUI Components are still omitted if the `disableAnimation` prop is `true`.
- **Type**: `boolean`
- **Default**: Same as `disableAnimation`

---

## Types

`CalendarDate`

- **Description**: A [CalendarDate](https://react-spectrum.adobe.com/internationalized/date/CalendarDate.html) represents a date without any time components in a specific calendar system from `@internationalized/date`.
- **Type**: `import {CalendarDate} from '@internationalized/date';`

### SupportedCalendars

Supported react-aria i18n calendars.

```tsx
type SupportedCalendars =
  | "buddhist"
  | "ethiopic"
  | "ethioaa"
  | "coptic"
  | "hebrew"
  | "indian"
  | "islamic-civil"
  | "islamic-tbla"
  | "islamic-umalqura"
  | "japanese"
  | "persian"
  | "roc"
  | "gregory";
```

Commit message:

feat: switch default validationBehavior to aria and allow switching via props (#2987)
* chore: add support validationBehavior aria

* chore: add validationBehavior to Provider

* chore: add autocomplete validation test

* chore: add checkbox validation test

* fix(input): require condition

* docs: add description of validationBehavior props

* chore: add support validationBehavior props for date components

* docs(dates): add description of validationBehavior props

* chore: add changeset

* chore: format

* chore: fix test

* fix: select validationBehavior is not support yet

* fix: select validationBehavior not supported yet

* chore(docs): validation behavior prop added to nextui-provider

---------

Co-authored-by: Junior Garcia <jrgarciadev@gmail.com>

apps/docs/content/docs/api-references/nextui-provider.mdx, after:

---
title: NextUI Provider
description: API References for NextUI Provider
---

# NextUI Provider

API reference for the `NextUIProvider`. 

------

## Import

<ImportTabs
  commands={{
    main: 'import {NextUIProvider} from "@nextui-org/react";',
    individual: 'import {NextUIProvider} from "@nextui-org/system";',
  }}
/>

## Usage

```jsx
import * as React from "react";
import {NextUIProvider} from "@nextui-org/react";

function App() {
  return (
    <NextUIProvider>
      <YourApplication />
    </NextUIProvider>
  );
}
```

## Props

<Spacer y={6}/>

`navigate`

- **Description**: Provides a client side router to all nested components such as Link, Menu, Tabs, Table, etc.
- **Type**: `((path: string) => void) | undefined`

<Spacer y={2}/>

`locale`

- **Description**: The locale to apply to the children.
- **Type**: `string | undefined`
- **Default**: `en-US`


Here's the supported locales. By default, It is `en-US`.

```tsx
const localeValues = [
  'fr-FR', 'fr-CA', 'de-DE', 'en-US', 'en-GB', 'ja-JP',
  'da-DK', 'nl-NL', 'fi-FI', 'it-IT', 'nb-NO', 'es-ES', 
  'sv-SE', 'pt-BR', 'zh-CN', 'zh-TW', 'ko-KR', 'bg-BG', 
  'hr-HR', 'cs-CZ', 'et-EE', 'hu-HU', 'lv-LV', 'lt-LT', 
  'pl-PL', 'ro-RO', 'ru-RU', 'sr-SP', 'sk-SK', 'sl-SI', 
  'tr-TR', 'uk-UA', 'ar-AE', 'ar-DZ', 'AR-EG', 'ar-SA', 
  'el-GR', 'he-IL', 'fa-AF', 'am-ET', 'hi-IN', 'th-TH'
];
```

Here's an example to set a Spanish locale.

```tsx
"use client";

import {type ReactNode} from "react";
import {NextUIProvider} from "@nextui-org/react";

export function AppProvider(props: AppProviderProps) {
  const {children, className} = props;

  return (
    <NextUIProvider locale="es-ES" className={className}>
      {children}
    </NextUIProvider>
  );
}

interface AppProviderProps {
  children: ReactNode;
  className?: string;
}
```

<Spacer y={2}/>

`defaultDates`

- **Description**: The default dates range that can be selected in the calendar.
- **Type**: `{ minDate?: CalendarDate | undefined; maxDate?: CalendarDate | undefined; }`
- **Default**: `{ minDate: new CalendarDate(1900, 1, 1), maxDate: new CalendarDate(2099, 12, 31) }`

<Spacer y={2}/>

`createCalendar`

- **Description**: 
    This function helps to reduce the bundle size by providing a custom calendar system.

    By default, this includes all calendar systems supported by `@internationalized/date`. However,
    if your application supports a more limited set of regions, or you know you will only be picking dates
    in a certain calendar system, you can reduce your bundle size by providing your own implementation
    of `createCalendar` that includes a subset of these Calendar implementations.

    For example, if your application only supports Gregorian dates, you could implement a `createCalendar`
    function like this:

    ```tsx
    import {GregorianCalendar} from '@internationalized/date';

    function createCalendar(identifier) {
    switch (identifier) {
      case 'gregory':
        return new GregorianCalendar();
      default:
        throw new Error(`Unsupported calendar ${identifier}`);
    }
    }
    ```

    This way, only GregorianCalendar is imported, and the other calendar implementations can be tree-shaken.

- **Type**: `((calendar: SupportedCalendars) => Calendar | null) | undefined`

<Spacer y={2}/>

`disableAnimation`

- **Description**: Disables animations globally. This will also avoid `framer-motion` features to be loaded in the bundle which can potentially reduce the bundle size.
- **Type**: `boolean`
- **Default**: `false`

<Spacer y={2}/>

`disableRipple`

- **Description**: Disables ripple effect globally.
- **Type**: `boolean`
- **Default**: `false`

<Spacer y={2}/>

`skipFramerMotionAnimations`

- **Description**:
  Controls whether `framer-motion` animations are skipped within the application.
  This property is automatically enabled (`true`) when the `disableAnimation` prop is set to `true`,
  effectively skipping all `framer-motion` animations. To retain `framer-motion` animations while
  using the `disableAnimation` prop for other purposes, set this to `false`. However, note that
  animations in NextUI Components are still omitted if the `disableAnimation` prop is `true`.
- **Type**: `boolean`
- **Default**: Same as `disableAnimation`

<Spacer y={2}/>

`validationBehavior`

- **Description**: Whether to use native HTML form validation to prevent form submission when the value is missing or invalid, 
or mark the field as required or invalid via ARIA.
- **Type**: `native | aria`
- **Default**: `aria`

---

## Types

`CalendarDate`

- **Description**: A [CalendarDate](https://react-spectrum.adobe.com/internationalized/date/CalendarDate.html) represents a date without any time components in a specific calendar system from `@internationalized/date`.
- **Type**: `import {CalendarDate} from '@internationalized/date';`

### SupportedCalendars

Supported react-aria i18n calendars.

```tsx
type SupportedCalendars =
  | "buddhist"
  | "ethiopic"
  | "ethioaa"
  | "coptic"
  | "hebrew"
  | "indian"
  | "islamic-civil"
  | "islamic-tbla"
  | "islamic-umalqura"
  | "japanese"
  | "persian"
  | "roc"
  | "gregory";
```
