apps/docs/content/blog/v2.2.0.mdx, before:

---
title: "Introducing v2.2.0 🚀"
description: "NextUI v2.2.0 is here! Dive into client-side router support, discover 3 new components including the Autocomplete, and more."
date: "2023-11-03"
image: "/blog/v2.2.0.jpg"
tags: ["nextui", "autocomplete", "breadcrumbs", "client side router", "slider"]
author:
  name: "Junior Garcia"
  username: "@jrgarciadev"
  link: "https://twitter.com/jrgarciadev"
  avatar: "/avatars/junior-garcia.jpeg"
---

import {autocompleteContent} from "@/content/components/autocomplete";
import {sliderContent} from "@/content/components/slider";
import {breadcrumbsContent} from "@/content/components/breadcrumbs";

<img
  src="/blog/v2.2.0_2x.jpg"
  width={700}
  height={350}
  alt="NextUI v2.2.0"
  className="w-full border border-transparent dark:border-default-200/50 object-fit rounded-xl shadow-lg"
/>

We are excited to announce the latest update to NextUI, version **2.2.0**! This release introduces 3 new components,
support for client-side routing, and more.

## What's New in v2.2.0?

- [Client Side Routing](#client-side-routing) - Allows you to seamlessly incorporate client-side routers.
- [Autocomplete](/docs/components/autocomplete) - Combines a text input with a listbox, allowing users to filter a list of options.
- [Slider](/docs/components/slider) - Allows users to make selections from a range of values.
- [Breadcrumbs](/docs/components/breadcrumbs) - Displays a hierarchy of links to the current page or resource in an application.
- [Other Changes](#other-changes) - Includes styling improvements, accessibility and usability enhancements.

<Spacer y={4} />

## Client Side Routing

By default, links perform native browser navigation when they are interacted with. However, many apps and
frameworks use client side routers to avoid a full page reload when navigating between pages.

NextUI now natively supports client-side routing in components such as [Link](/docs/components/link), [Tabs](/docs/components/tabs),
[Breadcrumbs](/docs/components/breadcrumbs), [Listbox](/docs/components/listbox), [Dropdown](/docs/components/dropdown) and many others offering
the flexibility to be rendered as HTML links, allowing you to seamlessly incorporate client-side routers. See the [Routing](/docs/guide/routing) guide to
learn how it set it up in your app.

The `NextUIProvider` component configures all NextUI components within it to navigate using the
client side router you provide.

> **Note**: Client side routing is based on [React Aria Routing](https://react-spectrum.adobe.com/react-aria/routing.html).

### Next.js Example

- App Router

  Go to your `app/providers.tsx` or `app/providers.jsx` (create it if it doesn't exist) and add the
  `useRouter` hook from `next/navigation`, it returns a router object that can be used to perform navigation.

  ```tsx
  // app/providers.tsx
  "use client";

  import {NextUIProvider} from "@nextui-org/react";

  export function Providers({children}: {children: React.ReactNode}) {
    const router = useRouter();

    return <NextUIProvider navigate={router.push}>{children}</NextUIProvider>;
  }
  ```

- Pages Router

  Go to pages`/_app.js` or `pages/_app.tsx` (create it if it doesn't exist) and add the`useRouter` hook
  from `next/router`, it returns a router object that can be used to perform navigation.

  ```tsx
  // pages/_app.tsx
  import type {AppProps} from "next/app";
  import {useRouter} from "next/router";
  import {NextUIProvider} from "@nextui-org/react";

  function MyApp({Component, pageProps}: AppProps) {
    const router = useRouter();

    return (
      <NextUIProvider navigate={router.push}>
        <Component {...pageProps} />
      </NextUIProvider>
    );
  }

  export default MyApp;
  ```

- Usage

  Now that you have set up the `NextUIProvider` in your app, you can use the `href` prop in the `Tabs`,
  `Listbox` and `Dropdown` items to navigate between pages.

  The [Link](/docs/components/link) component will also use the `navigate` function from the
  `NextUIProvider` to navigate between pages.

  ```jsx
  import {
    Tabs,
    Tab,
    Listbox,
    ListboxItem,
    Dropdown,
    DropdownTrigger,
    DropdownMenu,
    DropdownItem,
    Button,
    Link,
  } from "@nextui-org/react";

  function App() {
    return (
      <>
        <Tabs aria-label="Navigation">
          <Tab key="home" href="/home">
            Home
          </Tab>
          <Tab key="about" href="/about">
            About
          </Tab>
        </Tabs>
        <Listbox aria-label="Navigation">
          <ListboxItem key="home" href="/home">
            Home
          </ListboxItem>
          <ListboxItem key="about" href="/about">
            About
          </ListboxItem>
        </Listbox>
        <Dropdown>
          <DropdownTrigger>
            <Button>Open</Button>
          </DropdownTrigger>
          <DropdownMenu aria-label="Navigation">
            <DropdownItem key="home" href="/home">
              Home
            </DropdownItem>
            <DropdownItem key="about" href="/about">
              About
            </DropdownItem>
          </DropdownMenu>
        </Dropdown>
        <Link href="/home">Home</Link>
        <Link href="/about">About</Link>
      </>
    );
  }
  ```

<Spacer y={4} />

## Autocomplete

Creating an autocomplete component that is both accessible and customizable is a challenging task. We've spent a lot of time
researching and testing different approaches to come up with a solution that works for everyone. The result is a
component that is easy to use, fully accessible, and highly customizable.

The new **Autocomplete** component includes:

- Support for selecting a single option.
- Support for disabled options.
- Support for groups of items in sections.
- Support for filtering a list of options by typing.
- Support for controlled and uncontrolled options, selection and input value.
- Support for custom filter functions.
- Async loading and infinite scrolling support.
- Required and invalid states exposed to assistive technology via ARIA.
- Support for description and error message help text linked to the input via ARIA.
- And much more...

We recommend to read this [Blog post](https://react-spectrum.adobe.com/blog/building-a-combobox.html) from [react-aria](https://react-spectrum.adobe.com/react-aria) team to learn more
about the Autocomplete component.

### Usage

<CodeDemo title="Usage" files={autocompleteContent.usage} />

### Custom Items

You can customize the autocomplete items by modifying the `AutocompleteItem` children.

<CodeDemo title="Custom Items" files={autocompleteContent.customItems} />

### Customizable

The autocomplete component is highly customizable, you can customize the popover, listbox and
input components.

<CodeDemo title="Custom Styles" files={autocompleteContent.customStyles} />

Go to the [Autocomplete](/docs/components/autocomplete) component page to learn more about it.

<Spacer y={4} />

## Slider

The **Slider** component allows users to make selections from a range of values. It is a great way to allow users to
select a value from a fixed range, such as volume or temperature, or to select a value from a range that changes
frequently, such as stock prices or budgets.

### Usage

<CodeDemo title="Usage" files={sliderContent.usage} />

### Range Support

If you pass an array of values to the `value` prop or to the `defaultValue` prop, the slider will become a range slider.

<CodeDemo title="Range Slider" files={sliderContent.range} />

### With Tooltip

The slider component also supports a tooltip to display the current value.

<CodeDemo title="With Tooltip" files={sliderContent.tooltip} />

### Slider steps

You can use the `showSteps` prop to display small dots on each step.

<CodeDemo title="With Visible Steps" files={sliderContent.visibleSteps} />

### Slider Custom Styles

You can customize the `Slider` component by passing custom Tailwind CSS classes to the component slots.

<CodeDemo title="Custom Styles" files={sliderContent.customStyles} />

Go to the [Slider](/docs/components/slider) component page to learn more about it.

<Spacer y={4} />

## Breadcrumbs

The **Breadcrumbs** is an essential component for navigating hierarchical content. It displays a hierarchy of links to the
current page or resource in an application.

### Usage

<CodeDemo title="Usage" files={breadcrumbsContent.usage} />

### Breadcrumbs as menu

It is possible to use the `Breadcrumbs` component as a horizontal menu. This is useful when you want to display a list
of possible navigations and let the user choose one of them.

<CodeDemo title="Menu Type" files={breadcrumbsContent.menuType} />

### Start & End Content support

You can add any element to the start or end of the breadcrumbs by using the `startContent` and `endContent` props. The
above example uses the `startContent` prop to add icons to the start of the breadcrumbs.

<CodeDemo title="Start & End Content" files={breadcrumbsContent.startEndContent} />

### Collapsing Items support

The `Breadcrumbs` component supports collapsing items, it is useful when you have a lot of items and you want to
collapse them into a dropdown menu.

<CodeDemo title="Customizing the Ellipsis Item" files={breadcrumbsContent.customizingEllipsis} />

### Apllying custom styles

You can customize the `Breadcrumbs` component by passing custom Tailwind CSS classes to the component slots.

<CodeDemo title="Custom Styles" files={breadcrumbsContent.customStyles} />

<Spacer y={4} />

Go to the [Breadcrumbs](/docs/components/breadcrumbs) component page to learn more about it.

## Other Changes

- Styling Improvements:

  - Transitioned spacing units from pixels (px) to rem units to optimize mobile component sizing.
  - Introduced a new `shouldSelectOnPressUp` property for `Tabs/Tab` with a default value of true, allowing tab selection on press-up instead of press-down.
  - Updated Chip component's font size to text-tiny for the sm size variant.
  - Enhanced the Button component to display only the spinner during loading when it contains an icon.

- Accessibility and Usability Enhancements:

  - Resolved Popover component's open state issues for blur/opaque backdrops.
  - Enhanced the ScrollShadow API, introducing visibility and onVisibilityChange properties to manage shadow visibility.
  - Added `emptyContent`, `topContent`, and `bottomContent` properties to Listbox/Menu/Dropdown for customized content rendering.
  - Introduced baseRef to the Input component, allowing control over the parent element's reference.
  - Upgraded tailwind-variants to version `0.1.18`, incorporating slot props control.

- Right-to-Left (RTL) Support:

  - Implemented RTL support for Accordion,
  - Implemented RTL support for Accordion Avatar & AvatarGroup components,
  - Implemented RTL support for ButtonGroup.

- Custom Implementations and Fixes:

  - Implemented a custom `usePress` hook to address the corner press issue, with a corresponding pull request and issue submitted to the react-aria project.
  - Applied the custom `usePress` across all NextUI interactive components for consistent behavior.
  - Improved animations and positioning for Input & Select labels.
  - Upgraded `react-aria` packages and `framer-motion` for enhanced performance.
  - Enhanced TypeScript support for generic items in Menu and DropdownMenu.
  - Streamlined package dependencies to exclude globally or individually installed packages, reducing bundle sizes.

- Visual and Interactive Tweaks:

  - Removed the outline on Input focus-visible for a cleaner aesthetic.
  - Fixed the radius property issue in `ButtonGroup`.
  - Introduced the `isActive` prop for `NavbarMenuItem` for active state management.
  - Corrected the Pagination custom-items example by adding the key prop.
  - Enabled Collection Items support within the `extendVariants` function.
  - Added transitions to menu/listbox items for smoother interaction.
  - Added a `disableAutosize` property to `Textarea` to control auto-resizing.
  - Resolved styling issues in Textarea and animated height adjustments for a fluid user experience.
  - Included a `hoverOpacity` key in the themes object within the plugin for customized hover effects.
  - Implemented a hover effect for the Button component to enhance user interaction feedback.

<Spacer y={4} />

## Breaking Changes

Unfortunately, we had to make some small styles breaking changes in this release to improve the [Popover](/docs/components/popover) arrow
dynamic positioning. Instead of having a specific slot for the popover arrow, we now use the `before` pseudo element, this allows the
popover to also move the arrow altogether.

This change impacts the Popover, Dropdown, Tooltip and Select implementations.

Popover changes:

```diff-jsx
  <Popover
      showArrow
      backdrop="opaque"
      placement="right"
      classNames={{
-        base: "py-3 px-4 border border-default-200 bg-gradient-to-br from-white to-default-300 dark:from-default-100 dark:to-default-50",
-        arrow: "bg-default-200",
+        base: [
+          // the "before" pseudo element is now the popover' arrow
+          "before:bg-default-200"
+        ],
+        content: [ // now we need to use the "content" slot to actually modify the popover' content styles
+          "py-3 px-4 border border-default-200",
+          "bg-gradient-to-br from-white to-default-300",
+          "dark:from-default-100 dark:to-default-50",
        ],
      }}
    >
      ...
  </Popover>
```

Tooltip changes:

```diff-jsx
 <Tooltip
      showArrow
      placement="right"
      content="I am a tooltip"
      classNames={{
-        base: "py-2 px-4 shadow-xl text-black bg-gradient-to-br from-white to-neutral-400",
-        arrow: "bg-neutral-400 dark:bg-white",
+        base: [
+          // the "before" pseudo element is now the popover' arrow
+          "before:bg-neutral-400 dark:before:bg-white",
+        ],
+        content: [ // now we need to use the "content" slot to actually modify the popover' content styles
+          "py-2 px-4 shadow-xl",
+          "text-black bg-gradient-to-br from-white to-neutral-400",
+        ],
      }}
    >
      <Button variant="flat">Hover me</Button>
  </Tooltip>
```

Select changes:

```diff-jsx
 <Select
      items={users}
      label="Assigned to"
      className="max-w-xs"
      variant="bordered"
      popoverProps={{
        classNames: {
-          base: "p-0 border-small border-divider bg-background",
-          arrow: "bg-default-200",
+          base: "before:bg-default-200", // the before pseudo element controls the popover's arrow
+          content: "p-0 border-small border-divider bg-background", // now instead of the "base" slot we use the "content" slot
        },
      }}
    >
     ...
    </Select>
  );
}`;
```

Dropdown Changes

```diff-jsx
    <Dropdown
      showArrow
      classNames={{
-        base: "py-1 px-1 border border-default-200 bg-gradient-to-br from-white to-default-200 dark:from-default-50 dark:to-black",
-        arrow: "bg-default-200",
+        content: "py-1 px-1 border border-default-200 bg-gradient-to-br from-white to-default-200 dark:from-default-50 dark:to-black",  // now instead of the "base" slot we use the "content"
+        base: "before:bg-default-200",  // the before pseudo element controls the popover's arrow
      }}
    >
      ...
    </Dropdown>
```

<Spacer y={6} />

We hope you enjoy these new components and the new features. We're excited to see what you build with them!

Thanks for reading and happy coding! 🚀

---

## Community

We're excited to see the community adopt NextUI, raise issues, and provide feedback.
Whether it's a feature request, bug report, or a project to showcase, please get involved!

<Community />

## Contributing

PR's on NextUI are always welcome, please see our [contribution guidelines](https://github.com/nextui-org/nextui/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.MD) to learn how you can contribute to this project.

Commit message:

chore(blog): card body padding change added

apps/docs/content/blog/v2.2.0.mdx, after:

---
title: "Introducing v2.2.0 🚀"
description: "NextUI v2.2.0 is here! Dive into client-side router support, discover 3 new components including the Autocomplete, and more."
date: "2023-11-03"
image: "/blog/v2.2.0.jpg"
tags: ["nextui", "autocomplete", "breadcrumbs", "client side router", "slider"]
author:
  name: "Junior Garcia"
  username: "@jrgarciadev"
  link: "https://twitter.com/jrgarciadev"
  avatar: "/avatars/junior-garcia.jpeg"
---

import {autocompleteContent} from "@/content/components/autocomplete";
import {sliderContent} from "@/content/components/slider";
import {breadcrumbsContent} from "@/content/components/breadcrumbs";

<img
  src="/blog/v2.2.0_2x.jpg"
  width={700}
  height={350}
  alt="NextUI v2.2.0"
  className="w-full border border-transparent dark:border-default-200/50 object-fit rounded-xl shadow-lg"
/>

We are excited to announce the latest update to NextUI, version **2.2.0**! This release introduces 3 new components,
support for client-side routing, and more.

## What's New in v2.2.0?

- [Client Side Routing](#client-side-routing) - Allows you to seamlessly incorporate client-side routers.
- [Autocomplete](/docs/components/autocomplete) - Combines a text input with a listbox, allowing users to filter a list of options.
- [Slider](/docs/components/slider) - Allows users to make selections from a range of values.
- [Breadcrumbs](/docs/components/breadcrumbs) - Displays a hierarchy of links to the current page or resource in an application.
- [Other Changes](#other-changes) - Includes styling improvements, accessibility and usability enhancements.

<Spacer y={4} />

## Client Side Routing

By default, links perform native browser navigation when they are interacted with. However, many apps and
frameworks use client side routers to avoid a full page reload when navigating between pages.

NextUI now natively supports client-side routing in components such as [Link](/docs/components/link), [Tabs](/docs/components/tabs),
[Breadcrumbs](/docs/components/breadcrumbs), [Listbox](/docs/components/listbox), [Dropdown](/docs/components/dropdown) and many others offering
the flexibility to be rendered as HTML links, allowing you to seamlessly incorporate client-side routers. See the [Routing](/docs/guide/routing) guide to
learn how it set it up in your app.

The `NextUIProvider` component configures all NextUI components within it to navigate using the
client side router you provide.

> **Note**: Client side routing is based on [React Aria Routing](https://react-spectrum.adobe.com/react-aria/routing.html).

### Next.js Example

- App Router

  Go to your `app/providers.tsx` or `app/providers.jsx` (create it if it doesn't exist) and add the
  `useRouter` hook from `next/navigation`, it returns a router object that can be used to perform navigation.

  ```tsx
  // app/providers.tsx
  "use client";

  import {NextUIProvider} from "@nextui-org/react";

  export function Providers({children}: {children: React.ReactNode}) {
    const router = useRouter();

    return <NextUIProvider navigate={router.push}>{children}</NextUIProvider>;
  }
  ```

- Pages Router

  Go to pages`/_app.js` or `pages/_app.tsx` (create it if it doesn't exist) and add the`useRouter` hook
  from `next/router`, it returns a router object that can be used to perform navigation.

  ```tsx
  // pages/_app.tsx
  import type {AppProps} from "next/app";
  import {useRouter} from "next/router";
  import {NextUIProvider} from "@nextui-org/react";

  function MyApp({Component, pageProps}: AppProps) {
    const router = useRouter();

    return (
      <NextUIProvider navigate={router.push}>
        <Component {...pageProps} />
      </NextUIProvider>
    );
  }

  export default MyApp;
  ```

- Usage

  Now that you have set up the `NextUIProvider` in your app, you can use the `href` prop in the `Tabs`,
  `Listbox` and `Dropdown` items to navigate between pages.

  The [Link](/docs/components/link) component will also use the `navigate` function from the
  `NextUIProvider` to navigate between pages.

  ```jsx
  import {
    Tabs,
    Tab,
    Listbox,
    ListboxItem,
    Dropdown,
    DropdownTrigger,
    DropdownMenu,
    DropdownItem,
    Button,
    Link,
  } from "@nextui-org/react";

  function App() {
    return (
      <>
        <Tabs aria-label="Navigation">
          <Tab key="home" href="/home">
            Home
          </Tab>
          <Tab key="about" href="/about">
            About
          </Tab>
        </Tabs>
        <Listbox aria-label="Navigation">
          <ListboxItem key="home" href="/home">
            Home
          </ListboxItem>
          <ListboxItem key="about" href="/about">
            About
          </ListboxItem>
        </Listbox>
        <Dropdown>
          <DropdownTrigger>
            <Button>Open</Button>
          </DropdownTrigger>
          <DropdownMenu aria-label="Navigation">
            <DropdownItem key="home" href="/home">
              Home
            </DropdownItem>
            <DropdownItem key="about" href="/about">
              About
            </DropdownItem>
          </DropdownMenu>
        </Dropdown>
        <Link href="/home">Home</Link>
        <Link href="/about">About</Link>
      </>
    );
  }
  ```

<Spacer y={4} />

## Autocomplete

Creating an autocomplete component that is both accessible and customizable is a challenging task. We've spent a lot of time
researching and testing different approaches to come up with a solution that works for everyone. The result is a
component that is easy to use, fully accessible, and highly customizable.

The new **Autocomplete** component includes:

- Support for selecting a single option.
- Support for disabled options.
- Support for groups of items in sections.
- Support for filtering a list of options by typing.
- Support for controlled and uncontrolled options, selection and input value.
- Support for custom filter functions.
- Async loading and infinite scrolling support.
- Required and invalid states exposed to assistive technology via ARIA.
- Support for description and error message help text linked to the input via ARIA.
- And much more...

We recommend to read this [Blog post](https://react-spectrum.adobe.com/blog/building-a-combobox.html) from [react-aria](https://react-spectrum.adobe.com/react-aria) team to learn more
about the Autocomplete component.

### Usage

<CodeDemo title="Usage" files={autocompleteContent.usage} />

### Custom Items

You can customize the autocomplete items by modifying the `AutocompleteItem` children.

<CodeDemo title="Custom Items" files={autocompleteContent.customItems} />

### Customizable

The autocomplete component is highly customizable, you can customize the popover, listbox and
input components.

<CodeDemo title="Custom Styles" files={autocompleteContent.customStyles} />

Go to the [Autocomplete](/docs/components/autocomplete) component page to learn more about it.

<Spacer y={4} />

## Slider

The **Slider** component allows users to make selections from a range of values. It is a great way to allow users to
select a value from a fixed range, such as volume or temperature, or to select a value from a range that changes
frequently, such as stock prices or budgets.

### Usage

<CodeDemo title="Usage" files={sliderContent.usage} />

### Range Support

If you pass an array of values to the `value` prop or to the `defaultValue` prop, the slider will become a range slider.

<CodeDemo title="Range Slider" files={sliderContent.range} />

### With Tooltip

The slider component also supports a tooltip to display the current value.

<CodeDemo title="With Tooltip" files={sliderContent.tooltip} />

### Slider steps

You can use the `showSteps` prop to display small dots on each step.

<CodeDemo title="With Visible Steps" files={sliderContent.visibleSteps} />

### Slider Custom Styles

You can customize the `Slider` component by passing custom Tailwind CSS classes to the component slots.

<CodeDemo title="Custom Styles" files={sliderContent.customStyles} />

Go to the [Slider](/docs/components/slider) component page to learn more about it.

<Spacer y={4} />

## Breadcrumbs

The **Breadcrumbs** is an essential component for navigating hierarchical content. It displays a hierarchy of links to the
current page or resource in an application.

### Usage

<CodeDemo title="Usage" files={breadcrumbsContent.usage} />

### Breadcrumbs as menu

It is possible to use the `Breadcrumbs` component as a horizontal menu. This is useful when you want to display a list
of possible navigations and let the user choose one of them.

<CodeDemo title="Menu Type" files={breadcrumbsContent.menuType} />

### Start & End Content support

You can add any element to the start or end of the breadcrumbs by using the `startContent` and `endContent` props. The
above example uses the `startContent` prop to add icons to the start of the breadcrumbs.

<CodeDemo title="Start & End Content" files={breadcrumbsContent.startEndContent} />

### Collapsing Items support

The `Breadcrumbs` component supports collapsing items, it is useful when you have a lot of items and you want to
collapse them into a dropdown menu.

<CodeDemo title="Customizing the Ellipsis Item" files={breadcrumbsContent.customizingEllipsis} />

### Apllying custom styles

You can customize the `Breadcrumbs` component by passing custom Tailwind CSS classes to the component slots.

<CodeDemo title="Custom Styles" files={breadcrumbsContent.customStyles} />

<Spacer y={4} />

Go to the [Breadcrumbs](/docs/components/breadcrumbs) component page to learn more about it.

## Other Changes

- Styling Improvements:

  - Transitioned spacing units from pixels (px) to rem units to optimize mobile component sizing.
  - Introduced a new `shouldSelectOnPressUp` property for `Tabs/Tab` with a default value of true, allowing tab selection on press-up instead of press-down.
  - Updated Chip component's font size to text-tiny for the sm size variant.
  - Enhanced the Button component to display only the spinner during loading when it contains an icon.

- Accessibility and Usability Enhancements:

  - Resolved Popover component's open state issues for blur/opaque backdrops.
  - Enhanced the ScrollShadow API, introducing visibility and onVisibilityChange properties to manage shadow visibility.
  - Added `emptyContent`, `topContent`, and `bottomContent` properties to Listbox/Menu/Dropdown for customized content rendering.
  - Introduced baseRef to the Input component, allowing control over the parent element's reference.
  - Upgraded tailwind-variants to version `0.1.18`, incorporating slot props control.

- Right-to-Left (RTL) Support:

  - Implemented RTL support for Accordion,
  - Implemented RTL support for Accordion Avatar & AvatarGroup components,
  - Implemented RTL support for ButtonGroup.

- Custom Implementations and Fixes:

  - Implemented a custom `usePress` hook to address the corner press issue, with a corresponding pull request and issue submitted to the react-aria project.
  - Applied the custom `usePress` across all NextUI interactive components for consistent behavior.
  - Improved animations and positioning for Input & Select labels.
  - Upgraded `react-aria` packages and `framer-motion` for enhanced performance.
  - Enhanced TypeScript support for generic items in Menu and DropdownMenu.
  - Streamlined package dependencies to exclude globally or individually installed packages, reducing bundle sizes.

- Visual and Interactive Tweaks:

  - Removed the outline on Input focus-visible for a cleaner aesthetic.
  - Fixed the radius property issue in `ButtonGroup`.
  - Introduced the `isActive` prop for `NavbarMenuItem` for active state management.
  - Corrected the Pagination custom-items example by adding the key prop.
  - Enabled Collection Items support within the `extendVariants` function.
  - Added transitions to menu/listbox items for smoother interaction.
  - Added a `disableAutosize` property to `Textarea` to control auto-resizing.
  - Resolved styling issues in Textarea and animated height adjustments for a fluid user experience.
  - Included a `hoverOpacity` key in the themes object within the plugin for customized hover effects.
  - Implemented a hover effect for the Button component to enhance user interaction feedback.
  - The padding of the CardBody has been updated from `p-5` to `p-3` for consistency with the padding of other Card elements.

<Spacer y={4} />

## Breaking Changes

Unfortunately, we had to make some small styles breaking changes in this release to improve the [Popover](/docs/components/popover) arrow
dynamic positioning. Instead of having a specific slot for the popover arrow, we now use the `before` pseudo element, this allows the
popover to also move the arrow altogether.

This change impacts the Popover, Dropdown, Tooltip and Select implementations.

Popover changes:

```diff-jsx
  <Popover
      showArrow
      backdrop="opaque"
      placement="right"
      classNames={{
-        base: "py-3 px-4 border border-default-200 bg-gradient-to-br from-white to-default-300 dark:from-default-100 dark:to-default-50",
-        arrow: "bg-default-200",
+        base: [
+          // the "before" pseudo element is now the popover' arrow
+          "before:bg-default-200"
+        ],
+        content: [ // now we need to use the "content" slot to actually modify the popover' content styles
+          "py-3 px-4 border border-default-200",
+          "bg-gradient-to-br from-white to-default-300",
+          "dark:from-default-100 dark:to-default-50",
        ],
      }}
    >
      ...
  </Popover>
```

Tooltip changes:

```diff-jsx
 <Tooltip
      showArrow
      placement="right"
      content="I am a tooltip"
      classNames={{
-        base: "py-2 px-4 shadow-xl text-black bg-gradient-to-br from-white to-neutral-400",
-        arrow: "bg-neutral-400 dark:bg-white",
+        base: [
+          // the "before" pseudo element is now the popover' arrow
+          "before:bg-neutral-400 dark:before:bg-white",
+        ],
+        content: [ // now we need to use the "content" slot to actually modify the popover' content styles
+          "py-2 px-4 shadow-xl",
+          "text-black bg-gradient-to-br from-white to-neutral-400",
+        ],
      }}
    >
      <Button variant="flat">Hover me</Button>
  </Tooltip>
```

Select changes:

```diff-jsx
 <Select
      items={users}
      label="Assigned to"
      className="max-w-xs"
      variant="bordered"
      popoverProps={{
        classNames: {
-          base: "p-0 border-small border-divider bg-background",
-          arrow: "bg-default-200",
+          base: "before:bg-default-200", // the before pseudo element controls the popover's arrow
+          content: "p-0 border-small border-divider bg-background", // now instead of the "base" slot we use the "content" slot
        },
      }}
    >
     ...
    </Select>
  );
}`;
```

Dropdown Changes

```diff-jsx
    <Dropdown
      showArrow
      classNames={{
-        base: "py-1 px-1 border border-default-200 bg-gradient-to-br from-white to-default-200 dark:from-default-50 dark:to-black",
-        arrow: "bg-default-200",
+        content: "py-1 px-1 border border-default-200 bg-gradient-to-br from-white to-default-200 dark:from-default-50 dark:to-black",  // now instead of the "base" slot we use the "content"
+        base: "before:bg-default-200",  // the before pseudo element controls the popover's arrow
      }}
    >
      ...
    </Dropdown>
```

<Spacer y={6} />

We hope you enjoy these new components and the new features. We're excited to see what you build with them!

Thanks for reading and happy coding! 🚀

---

## Community

We're excited to see the community adopt NextUI, raise issues, and provide feedback.
Whether it's a feature request, bug report, or a project to showcase, please get involved!

<Community />

## Contributing

PR's on NextUI are always welcome, please see our [contribution guidelines](https://github.com/nextui-org/nextui/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.MD) to learn how you can contribute to this project.
