apps/docs/content/docs/customization/layout.mdx, before:

---
title: Layout
description: NextUI offers a set of layout options to customize the theme.
---

# Layout

The `nextui` plugin allows you to customize the layout for each theme. You can change the spacing units,
the font sizes, the line heights, radius and more.

Layout tokens guarantee a consistent look and feel across the components without the need to customize the
default Tailwind CSS theme.

```js {4,7,11}
module.exports = {
  plugins: [
    nextui({
      layout: {}, // common layout options
      themes: {
        light: {
          layout: {}, // light theme layout options
          // ...
        },
        dark: {
          layout: {}, // dark theme layout options
          // ...
        },
        // ... custom themes
      },
    }),
  ],
};
```

> Layout options are applied to all components.

## Default Layout

Default values for the layout tokens are:

```js
module.exports = {
  plugins: [
    nextui({
      layout: {
        spacingUnit: 4, // in px
        disabledOpacity: ".5", // this value is applied as opacity-[value] when the component is disabled
        dividerWeight: "1px", // h-divider the default height applied to the divider component
        fontSize: {
          tiny: "0.75rem", // text-tiny
          small: "0.875rem", // text-small
          medium: "1rem", // text-medium
          large: "1.125rem", // text-large
        },
        lineHeight: {
          tiny: "1rem", // text-tiny
          small: "1.25rem", // text-small
          medium: "1.5rem", // text-medium
          large: "1.75rem", // text-large
        },
        radius: {
          small: "8px", // rounded-small
          medium: "12px", // rounded-medium
          large: "14px", // rounded-large
        },
        borderWidth: {
          small: "1px", // border-small
          medium: "2px", // border-medium (default)
          large: "3px", // border-large
        },
      },
      themes: {
        light: {
          layout: {
            boxShadow: {
              // shadow-small
              small:
                "0px 0px 5px 0px rgb(0 0 0 / 0.02), 0px 2px 10px 0px rgb(0 0 0 / 0.06), 0px 0px 1px 0px rgb(0 0 0 / 0.3)",
              // shadow-medium
              medium:
                "0px 0px 15px 0px rgb(0 0 0 / 0.03), 0px 2px 30px 0px rgb(0 0 0 / 0.08), 0px 0px 1px 0px rgb(0 0 0 / 0.3)",
              // shadow-large
              large:
                "0px 0px 30px 0px rgb(0 0 0 / 0.04), 0px 30px 60px 0px rgb(0 0 0 / 0.12), 0px 0px 1px 0px rgb(0 0 0 / 0.3)",
            },
          },
        },
        dark: {
          layout: {
            boxShadow: {
              // shadow-small
              small:
                "0px 0px 5px 0px rgb(0 0 0 / 0.05), 0px 2px 10px 0px rgb(0 0 0 / 0.2), inset 0px 0px 1px 0px rgb(255 255 255 / 0.15)",
              // shadow-medium
              medium:
                "0px 0px 15px 0px rgb(0 0 0 / 0.06), 0px 2px 30px 0px rgb(0 0 0 / 0.22), inset 0px 0px 1px 0px rgb(255 255 255 / 0.15)",
              // shadow-large
              large:
                "0px 0px 30px 0px rgb(0 0 0 / 0.07), 0px 30px 60px 0px rgb(0 0 0 / 0.26), inset 0px 0px 1px 0px rgb(255 255 255 / 0.15)",
            },
          },
        },
      },
    }),
  ],
};
```

## Units

Units tokens define consistent spacing, padding, margin, gap and sizes across the components.

NextUI automatically generates the following units based on the `spacingUnit` token, which is `4px` by default:

```ts
// spacingUnit = 4px
{
  'unit-xs': '8px', // 2 * spacingUnit
  'unit-sm': '12px', // 3 * spacingUnit
  'unit-md': '16px', // 4 * spacingUnit
  'unit-lg': '22px', // 5.5 * spacingUnit
  'unit-xl': '36px', // 9 * spacingUnit
  'unit-2xl': '48px', // 12 * spacingUnit
  'unit-3xl': '80px', // 20 * spacingUnit
  'unit-4xl': '120px', // 30 * spacingUnit
  'unit-5xl': '224px', // 56 * spacingUnit
  'unit-6xl': '288px', // 72 * spacingUnit
  'unit-7xl': '384px', // 96 * spacingUnit
  'unit-8xl': '512px', // 128 * spacingUnit
  'unit-9xl': '640px', // 160 * spacingUnit
  'unit-0': '0px', // 0 * spacingUnit
  'unit-1': '4px', // 1 * spacingUnit
  'unit-2': '8px', // 2 * spacingUnit
  'unit-3': '12px', // 3 * spacingUnit
  'unit-3_5': '14px' // 3.5 * spacingUnit
  'unit-4': '16px', // 4 * spacingUnit
  'unit-5': '20px', // 5 * spacingUnit
  'unit-6': '24px', // 6 * spacingUnit
  'unit-7': '28px', // 7 * spacingUnit
  'unit-8': '32px', // 8 * spacingUnit
  'unit-9': '36px', // 9 * spacingUnit
  'unit-10': '40px', // 10 * spacingUnit
  'unit-11': '44px', // 11 * spacingUnit
  'unit-12': '48px', // 12 * spacingUnit
  'unit-13': '52px', // 13 * spacingUnit
  'unit-14': '56px', // 14 * spacingUnit
  'unit-15': '60px', // 15 * spacingUnit
  'unit-16': '64px', // 16 * spacingUnit
  'unit-17': '68px', // 17 * spacingUnit
  'unit-18': '72px', // 18 * spacingUnit
  'unit-20': '80px', // 20 * spacingUnit
  'unit-24': '96px', // 24 * spacingUnit
  'unit-28': '112px', // 28 * spacingUnit
  'unit-32': '128px', // 32 * spacingUnit
  'unit-36': '144px', // 36 * spacingUnit
  'unit-40': '160px', // 40 * spacingUnit
  'unit-44': '176px', // 44 * spacingUnit
  'unit-48': '192px', // 48 * spacingUnit
  'unit-52': '208px', // 52 * spacingUnit
  'unit-56': '224px', // 56 * spacingUnit
  'unit-60': '240px', // 60 * spacingUnit
  'unit-64': '256px', // 64 * spacingUnit
  'unit-72': '288px', // 72 * spacingUnit
  'unit-80': '320px', // 80 * spacingUnit
  'unit-96': '384px', // 96 * spacingUnit
}
```

### Using Units

NextUI units behave like [Tailwind CSS spacing](https://tailwindcss.com/docs/customizing-spacing#default-spacing-scale) units. You can use them in the `margin`, `padding`,
`width`, `height`, `min-width`, `min-height`, `gap`, `top`, `right`, `bottom`, and `left` properties.

```jsx {5}
import {Button} from "@nextui-org/react";

export const MyButton = () => {
  return (
    <Button className="px-unit-2 py-unit-1 min-w-unit-3xl">
      My Button
    </Button>
  );
};
```

> If you change the `spacingUnit` token, the units will be updated automatically.

### CSS Variables

NextUI creates CSS variables using the format `--prefix-prop-name-scale` for each layout token. By
default the prefix is `nextui`, but you can change it with the `prefix` option.

```js {4}
module.exports = {
  plugins: [
    nextui({
      prefix: "myapp",
    }),
  ],
};
```

Then you can use the CSS variables in your CSS files.

```css
/* With default prefix */
.my-button {
  padding: var(--nextui-spacing-unit-4);
  font-size: var(--nextui-font-size-small);
  line-height: var(--nextui-line-height-small);
  border-radius: var(--nextui-radius-medium);
}
/*  With custom prefix */
.my-component {
  padding: var(--myapp-spacing-unit-4);
  font-size: var(--myapp-font-size-small);
  line-height: var(--myapp-line-height-small);
  border-radius: var(--myapp-radius-medium);
}
```

#### API Reference

| Attribute       | Type                            | Description                                                                                 |
| --------------- | ------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| spacingUnit     | number                          | Base unit token that defines a consistent spacing scale across the components.              |
| disabledOpacity | string, number                  | A number between 0 and 1 that is applied as opacity-[value] when the component is disabled. |
| dividerWeight   | string                          | The default height applied to the divider component. We recommend to use `px` units.        |
| fontSize        | [FontThemeUnit](#fontthemeunit) | The default font size applied across the components.                                        |
| lineHeight      | [FontThemeUnit](#fontthemeunit) | The default line height applied across the components.                                      |
| radius          | [BaseThemeUnit](#basethemeunit) | The default radius applied across the components. We recommend to use `rem` units.          |
| borderWidth     | [BaseThemeUnit](#basethemeunit) | The border width applied across the components.                                             |
| boxShadow       | [BaseThemeUnit](#basethemeunit) | The box shadow applied across the components.                                               |

#### BaseThemeUnit

```ts
export type BaseThemeUnit = {
  small?: string;
  medium?: string;
  large?: string;
};
```

#### FontThemeUnit

```ts
export type FontThemeUnit = {
  small?: string;
  medium?: string;
  large?: string;
  tiny?: string;
};
```

Commit message:

feat(docs): customization part done. new snapshot

apps/docs/content/docs/customization/layout.mdx, after:

---
title: Layout
description: NextUI offers a set of layout options to customize the theme.
---

# Layout

NextUI's plugin provides a variety of layout customization options. Alter spacing units, 
font sizes, line heights, radii and more to personalize each theme to your liking. 

Using layout tokens, you can ensure a uniform aesthetic across all components without 
needing to override the default Tailwind CSS configuration.


```js {4,7,11}
module.exports = {
  plugins: [
    nextui({
      layout: {}, // common layout options
      themes: {
        light: {
          layout: {}, // light theme layout options
          // ...
        },
        dark: {
          layout: {}, // dark theme layout options
          // ...
        },
        // ... custom themes
      },
    }),
  ],
};
```

> Layout options are applied to all components.

## Default Layout

Default values for the layout tokens are:

```js
module.exports = {
  plugins: [
    nextui({
      layout: {
        spacingUnit: 4, // in px
        disabledOpacity: ".5", // this value is applied as opacity-[value] when the component is disabled
        dividerWeight: "1px", // h-divider the default height applied to the divider component
        fontSize: {
          tiny: "0.75rem", // text-tiny
          small: "0.875rem", // text-small
          medium: "1rem", // text-medium
          large: "1.125rem", // text-large
        },
        lineHeight: {
          tiny: "1rem", // text-tiny
          small: "1.25rem", // text-small
          medium: "1.5rem", // text-medium
          large: "1.75rem", // text-large
        },
        radius: {
          small: "8px", // rounded-small
          medium: "12px", // rounded-medium
          large: "14px", // rounded-large
        },
        borderWidth: {
          small: "1px", // border-small
          medium: "2px", // border-medium (default)
          large: "3px", // border-large
        },
      },
      themes: {
        light: {
          layout: {
            boxShadow: {
              // shadow-small
              small:
                "0px 0px 5px 0px rgb(0 0 0 / 0.02), 0px 2px 10px 0px rgb(0 0 0 / 0.06), 0px 0px 1px 0px rgb(0 0 0 / 0.3)",
              // shadow-medium
              medium:
                "0px 0px 15px 0px rgb(0 0 0 / 0.03), 0px 2px 30px 0px rgb(0 0 0 / 0.08), 0px 0px 1px 0px rgb(0 0 0 / 0.3)",
              // shadow-large
              large:
                "0px 0px 30px 0px rgb(0 0 0 / 0.04), 0px 30px 60px 0px rgb(0 0 0 / 0.12), 0px 0px 1px 0px rgb(0 0 0 / 0.3)",
            },
          },
        },
        dark: {
          layout: {
            boxShadow: {
              // shadow-small
              small:
                "0px 0px 5px 0px rgb(0 0 0 / 0.05), 0px 2px 10px 0px rgb(0 0 0 / 0.2), inset 0px 0px 1px 0px rgb(255 255 255 / 0.15)",
              // shadow-medium
              medium:
                "0px 0px 15px 0px rgb(0 0 0 / 0.06), 0px 2px 30px 0px rgb(0 0 0 / 0.22), inset 0px 0px 1px 0px rgb(255 255 255 / 0.15)",
              // shadow-large
              large:
                "0px 0px 30px 0px rgb(0 0 0 / 0.07), 0px 30px 60px 0px rgb(0 0 0 / 0.26), inset 0px 0px 1px 0px rgb(255 255 255 / 0.15)",
            },
          },
        },
      },
    }),
  ],
};
```

## Units

Units tokens define consistent spacing, padding, margin, gap and sizes across the components. Based on the 
`spacingUnit` token (default 4px), NextUI auto-generates the following units:

```ts
// spacingUnit = 4px
{
  'unit-xs': '8px', // 2 * spacingUnit
  'unit-sm': '12px', // 3 * spacingUnit
  'unit-md': '16px', // 4 * spacingUnit
  'unit-lg': '22px', // 5.5 * spacingUnit
  'unit-xl': '36px', // 9 * spacingUnit
  'unit-2xl': '48px', // 12 * spacingUnit
  'unit-3xl': '80px', // 20 * spacingUnit
  'unit-4xl': '120px', // 30 * spacingUnit
  'unit-5xl': '224px', // 56 * spacingUnit
  'unit-6xl': '288px', // 72 * spacingUnit
  'unit-7xl': '384px', // 96 * spacingUnit
  'unit-8xl': '512px', // 128 * spacingUnit
  'unit-9xl': '640px', // 160 * spacingUnit
  'unit-0': '0px', // 0 * spacingUnit
  'unit-1': '4px', // 1 * spacingUnit
  'unit-2': '8px', // 2 * spacingUnit
  'unit-3': '12px', // 3 * spacingUnit
  'unit-3_5': '14px' // 3.5 * spacingUnit
  'unit-4': '16px', // 4 * spacingUnit
  'unit-5': '20px', // 5 * spacingUnit
  'unit-6': '24px', // 6 * spacingUnit
  'unit-7': '28px', // 7 * spacingUnit
  'unit-8': '32px', // 8 * spacingUnit
  'unit-9': '36px', // 9 * spacingUnit
  'unit-10': '40px', // 10 * spacingUnit
  'unit-11': '44px', // 11 * spacingUnit
  'unit-12': '48px', // 12 * spacingUnit
  'unit-13': '52px', // 13 * spacingUnit
  'unit-14': '56px', // 14 * spacingUnit
  'unit-15': '60px', // 15 * spacingUnit
  'unit-16': '64px', // 16 * spacingUnit
  'unit-17': '68px', // 17 * spacingUnit
  'unit-18': '72px', // 18 * spacingUnit
  'unit-20': '80px', // 20 * spacingUnit
  'unit-24': '96px', // 24 * spacingUnit
  'unit-28': '112px', // 28 * spacingUnit
  'unit-32': '128px', // 32 * spacingUnit
  'unit-36': '144px', // 36 * spacingUnit
  'unit-40': '160px', // 40 * spacingUnit
  'unit-44': '176px', // 44 * spacingUnit
  'unit-48': '192px', // 48 * spacingUnit
  'unit-52': '208px', // 52 * spacingUnit
  'unit-56': '224px', // 56 * spacingUnit
  'unit-60': '240px', // 60 * spacingUnit
  'unit-64': '256px', // 64 * spacingUnit
  'unit-72': '288px', // 72 * spacingUnit
  'unit-80': '320px', // 80 * spacingUnit
  'unit-96': '384px', // 96 * spacingUnit
}
```

### Using Units

NextUI units behave like [Tailwind CSS spacing](https://tailwindcss.com/docs/customizing-spacing#default-spacing-scale) units. You can use them in the `margin`, `padding`,
`width`, `height`, `min-width`, `min-height`, `gap`, `top`, `right`, `bottom`, and `left` properties.

```jsx {5}
import {Button} from "@nextui-org/react";

export const MyButton = () => {
  return (
    <Button className="px-unit-2 py-unit-1 min-w-unit-3xl">
      My Button
    </Button>
  );
};
```

> **Remember**: Any changes to the `spacingUnit` token will automatically update the units.

### CSS Variables

NextUI creates CSS variables using the format `--prefix-prop-name-scale` for each layout token. By
default the prefix is `nextui`, but you can change it with the `prefix` option.

```js {4}
module.exports = {
  plugins: [
    nextui({
      prefix: "myapp",
    }),
  ],
};
```

Then you can use the CSS variables in your CSS files.

```css
/* With default prefix */
.my-button {
  padding: var(--nextui-spacing-unit-4);
  font-size: var(--nextui-font-size-small);
  line-height: var(--nextui-line-height-small);
  border-radius: var(--nextui-radius-medium);
}
/*  With custom prefix */
.my-component {
  padding: var(--myapp-spacing-unit-4);
  font-size: var(--myapp-font-size-small);
  line-height: var(--myapp-line-height-small);
  border-radius: var(--myapp-radius-medium);
}
```

#### API Reference

| Attribute       | Type                            | Description                                                                                 |
| --------------- | ------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| spacingUnit     | number                          | Base unit token that defines a consistent spacing scale across the components.              |
| disabledOpacity | string, number                  | A number between 0 and 1 that is applied as opacity-[value] when the component is disabled. |
| dividerWeight   | string                          | The default height applied to the divider component. We recommend to use `px` units.        |
| fontSize        | [FontThemeUnit](#fontthemeunit) | The default font size applied across the components.                                        |
| lineHeight      | [FontThemeUnit](#fontthemeunit) | The default line height applied across the components.                                      |
| radius          | [BaseThemeUnit](#basethemeunit) | The default radius applied across the components. We recommend to use `rem` units.          |
| borderWidth     | [BaseThemeUnit](#basethemeunit) | The border width applied across the components.                                             |
| boxShadow       | [BaseThemeUnit](#basethemeunit) | The box shadow applied across the components.                                               |

#### BaseThemeUnit

```ts
export type BaseThemeUnit = {
  small?: string;
  medium?: string;
  large?: string;
};
```

#### FontThemeUnit

```ts
export type FontThemeUnit = {
  small?: string;
  medium?: string;
  large?: string;
  tiny?: string;
};
```
