apps/docs/content/docs/frameworks/astro.mdx, before:

---
title: Astro
description: How to use NextUI with Astro
---

# Astro

Requirements:

- [React 18](https://reactjs.org/) or later
- [Tailwind CSS 3](https://tailwindcss.com/docs/guides/astro) or later
- [Framer Motion 4](https://www.framer.com/motion/) or later

------

<CarbonAd />

To use NextUI in your Astro project, you need to follow the following steps:

<Steps>

### Installation

In your Astro project, run one of the following command to install NextUI:

<PackageManagers
  commands={{
    npm: 'npm i @nextui-org/react framer-motion',
    yarn: 'yarn add @nextui-org/react framer-motion',
    pnpm: 'pnpm add @nextui-org/react framer-motion',
  }}
/>


<Spacer y={4}/>

### Tailwind CSS Setup

NextUI is built on top of Tailwind CSS, so you need to install Tailwind CSS first. You can follow the official
[installation guide](https://tailwindcss.com/docs/guides/astro) to install Tailwind CSS. Then you need to add 
the following code to your `tailwind.config.cjs` file:


```js {8,13-14}
// tailwind.config.cjs
const { nextui } = require("@nextui-org/react");

/** @type {import('tailwindcss').Config} */
module.exports = {
  content: [
    // ...
    "./node_modules/@nextui-org/theme/dist/**/*.{js,ts,jsx,tsx}"
  ],
  theme: {
    extend: {},
  },
  darkMode: "class",
  plugins: [nextui()]
}
```

### Usage

Now you can import NextUI components and use them in your Astro project:

```markdown
---
import Layout from '../layouts/Layout.astro';
import {Button} from '@nextui-org/react';
---

<Layout title="Welcome to Astro.">
  <main>
      <Button color="primary" client:visible>My button</Button>
  </main>
</Layout>
```

Note that you have to add `client:visible` to the component to make it visible only on the client side. Otherwise
some functionalities of NextUI components may not work properly.


### Setup pnpm (optional)

If you are using pnpm, you need to add the following code to your `.npmrc` file:

```bash
public-hoist-pattern[]=*@nextui-org/*
```

After modfiying the `.npmrc` file, you need to run `pnpm install` again to ensure that the dependencies are installed correctly.

</Steps>

<Blockquote
 color="warning"
>
  Version 2 is only compatible with React 18 or later. If you are using React 17 or earlier, please use <Link href="https://v1.nextui.org/docs/getting-started" isExternal>version 1 of NextUI</Link>.
</Blockquote>

Commit message:

Added note for installing React. (#2369)

apps/docs/content/docs/frameworks/astro.mdx, after:

---
title: Astro
description: How to use NextUI with Astro
---

# Astro

Requirements:

- [React 18](https://reactjs.org/) or later
- [Tailwind CSS 3](https://tailwindcss.com/docs/guides/astro) or later
- [Framer Motion 4](https://www.framer.com/motion/) or later

------

<CarbonAd />

To use NextUI in your Astro project, you need to follow the following steps:

<Steps>

### Install React

NextUI is built on top of React, so you need to install React first. You can follow the official
[integration guide](https://docs.astro.build/en/guides/integrations-guide/react/) to install React.


### Install NextUI

In your Astro project, run one of the following command to install NextUI:

<PackageManagers
  commands={{
    npm: 'npm i @nextui-org/react framer-motion',
    yarn: 'yarn add @nextui-org/react framer-motion',
    pnpm: 'pnpm add @nextui-org/react framer-motion',
  }}
/>


<Spacer y={4}/>

### Tailwind CSS Setup

NextUI is built on top of Tailwind CSS, so you need to install Tailwind CSS first. You can follow the official
[installation guide](https://tailwindcss.com/docs/guides/astro) to install Tailwind CSS. Then you need to add 
the following code to your `tailwind.config.cjs` file:


```js {8,13-14}
// tailwind.config.cjs
const { nextui } = require("@nextui-org/react");

/** @type {import('tailwindcss').Config} */
module.exports = {
  content: [
    // ...
    "./node_modules/@nextui-org/theme/dist/**/*.{js,ts,jsx,tsx}"
  ],
  theme: {
    extend: {},
  },
  darkMode: "class",
  plugins: [nextui()]
}
```

### Usage

Now you can import NextUI components and use them in your Astro project:

```markdown
---
import Layout from '../layouts/Layout.astro';
import {Button} from '@nextui-org/react';
---

<Layout title="Welcome to Astro.">
  <main>
      <Button color="primary" client:visible>My button</Button>
  </main>
</Layout>
```

Note that you have to add `client:visible` to the component to make it visible only on the client side. Otherwise
some functionalities of NextUI components may not work properly.


### Setup pnpm (optional)

If you are using pnpm, you need to add the following code to your `.npmrc` file:

```bash
public-hoist-pattern[]=*@nextui-org/*
```

After modfiying the `.npmrc` file, you need to run `pnpm install` again to ensure that the dependencies are installed correctly.

</Steps>

<Blockquote
 color="warning"
>
  Version 2 is only compatible with React 18 or later. If you are using React 17 or earlier, please use <Link href="https://v1.nextui.org/docs/getting-started" isExternal>version 1 of NextUI</Link>.
</Blockquote>
