packages/core/react/README.md, before:

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://nextui.org">
      <img width="20%" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/nextui-org/nextui/main/apps/docs/public/isotipo.png" alt="nextui" />
      <h1 align="center">NextUI</h1>
  </a>
</p>
</br>
<p align="center">
  <a href="https://github.com/jrgarciadev/nextui/blob/main/LICENSE">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/npm/l/@nextui-org/react?style=flat" alt="License">
  </a>
  <a href="https://codecov.io/gh/jrgarciadev/nextui">
    <img src="https://codecov.io/gh/jrgarciadev/nextui/branch/main/graph/badge.svg?token=QJF2QKR5N4" alt="codecov badge">
  </a>
  <!-- <a href="https://github.com/nextui-org/nextui/actions/workflows/main.yaml">
    <img src="https://github.com/nextui-org/nextui/actions/workflows/main.yaml/badge.svg" alt="CI/CD nextui">
  </a> -->
  <a href="https://www.npmjs.com/package/@nextui-org/react">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/@nextui-org/react.svg?style=flat-round" alt="npm downloads">
  </a>
</p>

<p align="center">
  <a rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank" href="https://www.vercel.com?utm_source=nextui&utm_marketing=oss">
    <img height="34px" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/nextui-org/nextui/main/apps/docs/public/deployed-on-vercel.svg" alt="Deployed on vercel">
  </a>
</p>

> **NOTE:** This is a community project, not associated with [Vercel](https://vercel.com), but does get some inspiration from there.

## Getting Started

Visit <a aria-label="nextui learn" href="https://nextui.org/learn">https://nextui.org/guide</a> to get started with NextUI.

## Documentation

Visit [https://nextui.org/docs](https://nextui.org/docs) to view the full documentation.

### Community

We're excited to see the community adopt NextUI, raise issues, and provide feedback.
Whether it's a feature request, bug report, or a project to showcase, please get involved!

- [Discord](https://discord.gg/9b6yyZKmH4)
- [Twitter](https://twitter.com/getnextui)
- [GitHub Discussions](https://github.com/nextui-org/nextui/discussions)

## Contributing

Contributions are always welcome!

See [CONTRIBUTING.md](https://github.com/nextui-org/nextui/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md) for ways to get started.

Please adhere to this project's [CODE_OF_CONDUCT](https://github.com/nextui-org/nextui/blob/main/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).

## License

[MIT](https://choosealicense.com/licenses/mit/)

Commit message:

docs(core): add storybook and canary release info (#2914)

packages/core/react/README.md, after:

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://nextui.org">
      <img width="20%" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/nextui-org/nextui/main/apps/docs/public/isotipo.png" alt="nextui" />
      <h1 align="center">NextUI</h1>
  </a>
</p>
</br>
<p align="center">
  <a href="https://github.com/jrgarciadev/nextui/blob/main/LICENSE">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/npm/l/@nextui-org/react?style=flat" alt="License">
  </a>
  <a href="https://codecov.io/gh/jrgarciadev/nextui">
    <img src="https://codecov.io/gh/jrgarciadev/nextui/branch/main/graph/badge.svg?token=QJF2QKR5N4" alt="codecov badge">
  </a>
  <!-- <a href="https://github.com/nextui-org/nextui/actions/workflows/main.yaml">
    <img src="https://github.com/nextui-org/nextui/actions/workflows/main.yaml/badge.svg" alt="CI/CD nextui">
  </a> -->
  <a href="https://www.npmjs.com/package/@nextui-org/react">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/@nextui-org/react.svg?style=flat-round" alt="npm downloads">
  </a>
</p>

<p align="center">
  <a rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank" href="https://www.vercel.com?utm_source=nextui&utm_marketing=oss">
    <img height="34px" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/nextui-org/nextui/main/apps/docs/public/deployed-on-vercel.svg" alt="Deployed on vercel">
  </a>
</p>

> **NOTE:** This is a community project, not associated with [Vercel](https://vercel.com), but does get some inspiration from there.

## Getting Started

Visit <a aria-label="nextui learn" href="https://nextui.org/learn">https://nextui.org/guide</a> to get started with NextUI.

## Documentation

Visit [https://nextui.org/docs](https://nextui.org/docs) to view the full documentation.

## Storybook

Visit [https://storybook.nextui.org](https://storybook.nextui.org/) to view the storybook for all components.

## Canary Release

Canary versions are available after every merge into `canary` branch. You can install the packages with the tag `canary` in npm to use the latest changes before the next production release.

- [Documentation](https://canary.nextui.org/docs)
- [Storybook](https://canary-storybook.nextui.org)

## Community

We're excited to see the community adopt NextUI, raise issues, and provide feedback.
Whether it's a feature request, bug report, or a project to showcase, please get involved!

- [Discord](https://discord.gg/9b6yyZKmH4)
- [Twitter](https://twitter.com/getnextui)
- [GitHub Discussions](https://github.com/nextui-org/nextui/discussions)

## Contributing

Contributions are always welcome!

See [CONTRIBUTING.md](https://github.com/nextui-org/nextui/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md) for ways to get started.

Please adhere to this project's [CODE_OF_CONDUCT](https://github.com/nextui-org/nextui/blob/main/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).

## License

[MIT](https://choosealicense.com/licenses/mit/)
